    -- I --Stately, plump Buck Mulligan came from the stairhead, bearing a bowl oflather on which a mirror and a razor lay crossed. A yellow dressinggown,ungirdled, was sustained gently behind him on the mild morning air. Heheld the bowl aloft and intoned:--INTROIBO AD ALTARE DEI.Halted, he peered down the dark winding stairs and called out coarsely:--Come up, Kinch! Come up, you fearful jesuit!Solemnly he came forward and mounted the round gunrest. He facedabout and blessed gravely thrice the tower, the surrounding land and theawaking mountains. Then, catching sight of Stephen Dedalus, he benttowards him and made rapid crosses in the air, gurgling in his throat andshaking his head. Stephen Dedalus, displeased and sleepy, leaned his armson the top of the staircase and looked coldly at the shaking gurgling facethat blessed him, equine in its length, and at the light untonsured hair,grained and hued like pale oak.Buck Mulligan peeped an instant under the mirror and then coveredthe bowl smartly.--Back to barracks! he said sternly.He added in a preachers tone:--For this, O dearly beloved, is the genuine Christine: body and soul andblood and ouns. Slow music, please. Shut your eyes, gents. One moment. Alittle trouble about those white corpuscles. Silence, all.He peered sideways up and gave a long slow whistle of call, thenpaused awhile in rapt attention, his even white teeth glistening here andthere with gold points. Chrysostomos. Two strong shrill whistles answeredthrough the calm.--Thanks, old chap, he cried briskly. That will do nicely. Switch off thecurrent, will you?He skipped off the gunrest and looked gravely at his watcher,gathering about his legs the loose folds of his gown. The plump shadowedface and sullen oval jowl recalled a prelate, patron of arts in the middleages. A pleasant smile broke quietly over his lips.--The mockery of it! he said gaily. Your absurd name, an ancient Greek!He pointed his finger in friendly jest and went over to the parapet,laughing to himself. Stephen Dedalus stepped up, followed him wearilyhalfway and sat down on the edge of the gunrest, watching him still as hepropped his mirror on the parapet, dipped the brush in the bowl andlathered cheeks and neck.Buck Mulligans gay voice went on.--My name is absurd too: Malachi Mulligan, two dactyls. But it has aHellenic ring, hasnt it? Tripping and sunny like the buck himself. Wemust go to Athens. Will you come if I can get the aunt to fork out twentyquid?He laid the brush aside and, laughing with delight, cried:--Will he come? The jejune jesuit!Ceasing, he began to shave with care.--Tell me, Mulligan, Stephen said quietly.--Yes, my love?--How long is Haines going to stay in this tower?Buck Mulligan showed a shaven cheek over his right shoulder.--God, isnt he dreadful? he said frankly. A ponderous Saxon. He thinksyoure not a gentleman. God, these bloody English! Bursting with moneyand indigestion. Because he comes from Oxford. You know, Dedalus, youhave the real Oxford manner. He cant make you out. O, my name for youis the best: Kinch, the knife-blade.He shaved warily over his chin.--He was raving all night about a black panther, Stephen said. Where ishis guncase?--A woful lunatic! Mulligan said. Were you in a funk?--I was, Stephen said with energy and growing fear. Out here in the darkwith a man I dont know raving and moaning to himself about shooting ablack panther. You saved men from drowning. Im not a hero, however. Ifhe stays on here I am off.Buck Mulligan frowned at the lather on his razorblade. He hoppeddown from his perch and began to search his trouser pockets hastily.--Scutter! he cried thickly.He came over to the gunrest and, thrusting a hand into Stephensupper pocket, said:--Lend us a loan of your noserag to wipe my razor.Stephen suffered him to pull out and hold up on show by its corner adirty crumpled handkerchief. Buck Mulligan wiped the razorblade neatly.Then, gazing over the handkerchief, he said:--The bards noserag! A new art colour for our Irish poets: snotgreen.You can almost taste it, cant you?He mounted to the parapet again and gazed out over Dublin bay, hisfair oakpale hair stirring slightly.--God! he said quietly. Isnt the sea what Algy calls it: a great sweetmother? The snotgreen sea. The scrotumtightening sea. EPI OINOPA PONTON.Ah, Dedalus, the Greeks! I must teach you. You must read them in theoriginal. THALATTA! THALATTA! She is our great sweet mother. Come andlook.Stephen stood up and went over to the parapet. Leaning on it helooked down on the water and on the mailboat clearing the harbourmouthof Kingstown.--Our mighty mother! Buck Mulligan said.He turned abruptly his grey searching eyes from the sea to Stephensface.--The aunt thinks you killed your mother, he said. Thats why she wontlet me have anything to do with you.--Someone killed her, Stephen said gloomily.--You could have knelt down, damn it, Kinch, when your dying motherasked you, Buck Mulligan said. Im hyperborean as much as you. But tothink of your mother begging you with her last breath to kneel down andpray for her. And you refused. There is something sinister in you ...He broke off and lathered again lightly his farther cheek. A tolerantsmile curled his lips.--But a lovely mummer! he murmured to himself. Kinch, the loveliestmummer of them all!He shaved evenly and with care, in silence, seriously.Stephen, an elbow rested on the jagged granite, leaned his palmagainst his brow and gazed at the fraying edge of his shiny blackcoat-sleeve. Pain, that was not yet the pain of love, fretted his heart.Silently, in a dream she had come to him after her death, her wasted bodywithin its loose brown graveclothes giving off an odour of wax androsewood, her breath, that had bent upon him, mute, reproachful, a faintodour of wetted ashes. Across the threadbare cuffedge he saw the seahailed as a great sweet mother by the wellfed voice beside him. The ringof bay and skyline held a dull green mass of liquid. A bowl of white chinahad stood beside her deathbed holding the green sluggish bile which shehad torn up from her rotting liver by fits of loud groaning vomiting.Buck Mulligan wiped again his razorblade.--Ah, poor dogsbody! he said in a kind voice. I must give you a shirt anda few noserags. How are the secondhand breeks?--They fit well enough, Stephen answered.Buck Mulligan attacked the hollow beneath his underlip.--The mockery of it, he said contentedly. Secondleg they should be. Godknows what poxy bowsy left them off. I have a lovely pair with a hairstripe, grey. Youll look spiffing in them. Im not joking, Kinch. Youlook damn well when youre dressed.--Thanks, Stephen said. I cant wear them if they are grey.--He cant wear them, Buck Mulligan told his face in the mirror.Etiquette is etiquette. He kills his mother but he cant wear greytrousers.He folded his razor neatly and with stroking palps of fingers felt thesmooth skin.Stephen turned his gaze from the sea and to the plump face with itssmokeblue mobile eyes.--That fellow I was with in the Ship last night, said Buck Mulligan, saysyou have g.p.i. Hes up in Dottyville with Connolly Norman. Generalparalysis of the insane!He swept the mirror a half circle in the air to flash the tidings abroadin sunlight now radiant on the sea. His curling shaven lips laughed andthe edges of his white glittering teeth. Laughter seized all his strongwellknit trunk.--Look at yourself, he said, you dreadful bard!Stephen bent forward and peered at the mirror held out to him, cleftby a crooked crack. Hair on end. As he and others see me. Who chose thisface for me? This dogsbody to rid of vermin. It asks me too.--I pinched it out of the skivvys room, Buck Mulligan said. It does herall right. The aunt always keeps plainlooking servants for Malachi. Leadhim not into temptation. And her name is Ursula.Laughing again, he brought the mirror away from Stephens peeringeyes.--The rage of Caliban at not seeing his face in a mirror, he said. IfWilde were only alive to see you!Drawing back and pointing, Stephen said with bitterness:--It is a symbol of Irish art. The cracked looking-glass of a servant.Buck Mulligan suddenly linked his arm in Stephens and walked withhim round the tower, his razor and mirror clacking in the pocket where hehad thrust them.--Its not fair to tease you like that, Kinch, is it? he said kindly. Godknows you have more spirit than any of them.Parried again. He fears the lancet of my art as I fear that of his. Thecold steelpen.--Cracked lookingglass of a servant! Tell that to the oxy chap downstairsand touch him for a guinea. Hes stinking with money and thinks yourenot a gentleman. His old fellow made his tin by selling jalap to Zulus orsome bloody swindle or other. God, Kinch, if you and I could only worktogether we might do something for the island. Hellenise it.Cranlys arm. His arm.--And to think of your having to beg from these swine. Im the only onethat knows what you are. Why dont you trust me more? What have you upyour nose against me? Is it Haines? If he makes any noise here Ill bringdown Seymour and well give him a ragging worse than they gave CliveKempthorpe.Young shouts of moneyed voices in Clive Kempthorpes rooms. Palefaces:they hold their ribs with laughter, one clasping another. O, Ishall expire! Break the news to her gently, Aubrey! I shall die! With slitribbons of his shirt whipping the air he hops and hobbles round the table,with trousers down at heels, chased by Ades of Magdalen with the tailorsshears. A scared calfs face gilded with marmalade. I dont want to bedebagged! Dont you play the giddy ox with me!Shouts from the open window startling evening in the quadrangle. Adeaf gardener, aproned, masked with Matthew Arnolds face, pushes hismower on the sombre lawn watching narrowly the dancing motes ofgrasshalms.To ourselves ... new paganism ... omphalos.--Let him stay, Stephen said. Theres nothing wrong with him except atnight.--Then what is it? Buck Mulligan asked impatiently. Cough it up. Imquite frank with you. What have you against me now?They halted, looking towards the blunt cape of Bray Head that lay onthe water like the snout of a sleeping whale. Stephen freed his armquietly.--Do you wish me to tell you? he asked.--Yes, what is it? Buck Великий ирландский писатель Джеймс Джойс (  ) стоит у истоков всей модернистской и постмодернистской литературы. Громкое имя и общемировую славу ему снискал Улисс  уникальный текст, роман   века. Предельно просты и его герой исюжет  один день из жизни дублинского обывателя; но в нехитрую оболочку вмещен весь космос литературы  фейерверк всех стилей и техник письма, виртуознейший язык, переклички с мириадами великих и безвестных текстов, вторжения древних мифов и творение новых, ирония и скандал, издевательство и игра  и встающий из всего этого новый взгляд на искусство, человека и мир. С момента выхода в свет и по сей день Улисс остается вызовом Писателя Читателю.* * *Джеймс ДжойсЭпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []* * *.Благодарим Вас за использование нашей библиотеки ..Джеймс ДжойсУлиссЭпизод []Сановитый[], жирный Бык Маллиган возник из лестничного проема, неся в руках чашку с пеной, на которой накрест лежали зеркальце и бритва. Желтый халат его, враспояску, слегка вздымался за ним на мягком утреннем ветерке.Он поднял чашку перед собою и возгласил[]:    [].Остановясь, он вгляделся вниз, в сумрак винтовой лестницы, и грубо крикнул: Выходи, Клинк! Выходи, иезуит несчастный!Торжественно он проследовал вперед и взошел на круглую орудийную площадку[]. Обернувшись по сторонам, он с важностью троекратно благословил башню, окрестный берег и пробуждающиеся горы. Потом, увидев Стивена Дедала, наклонился к нему и начал быстро крестить воздух, булькая горлом и подергивая головой. Стивен Дедал, недовольный и заспанный, облокотясь на последнюю ступеньку, холодно смотрел на дергающееся булькающее лицо, что благословляло его, длинное как у лошади, и на бестонзурную шевелюру, белесую, словно окрашенную под светлый дуб.Бык Маллиган заглянул под зеркальце и тут же опять прикрыл чашку. По казармам!  скомандовал он сурово.И пастырским голосом продолжал: Ибо сие, о возлюбленные мои, есть истинная Христина, тело и кровь, печенки и селезенки. Музыку медленней, пожалуйста. Господа, закройте глаза. Минуту. Маленькая заминка, знаете, с белыми шариками. Всем помолчать.Он устремил взгляд искоса вверх, издал долгий, протяжный призывный свист и замер, напряженно прислушиваясь. Белые ровные зубы кой-где поблескивали золотыми крупинками. Златоуст. Резкий ответный свист дважды прозвучал в тишине. Спасибо, старина,  живо откликнулся он.  Так будет чудненько. Можешь выключать ток!Он соскочил с площадки и с важностью поглядел на своего зрителя, собирая у ног складки просторного халата. Жирное затененное лицо и тяжелый овальный подбородок напоминали средневекового прелата[], покровителя искусств. Довольная улыбка показалась у него на губах. Смех да и только,  сказал он весело.  Это нелепое твое имя, как у древнего грека.Ткнув пальцем с дружелюбной насмешкой, он отошел к парапету, посмеиваясь. Стивен Дедал, поднявшись до конца лестницы, устало побрел за ним, но, не дойдя, уселся на край площадки и принялся наблюдать, как тот, пристроив на парапете зеркальце и обмакнув в пену помазок, намыливает шею и щеки.Веселый голос Быка Маллигана не умолкал: У меня тоже нелепое  Мэйлахи Маллиган, два дактиля. Но тут звучит что-то эллинское, правда ведь? Что-то солнечное и резвое, как сам бычок. Мы непременно должны поехать в Афины. Поедешь, если я раздобуду у тетушки двадцать фунтов?Он положил помазок и в полном восторге воскликнул: Это он-то поедет? Изнуренный иезуит.Оборвал себя и начал тщательно бриться. Послушай, Маллиган,  промолвил Стивен негромко. Да, моя радость? Долго еще Хейнс будет жить в башне?Бык Маллиган явил над правым плечом свежевыбритую щеку. Кошмарная личность, а?  сказал он от души.  Этакий толстокожий сакс. Он считает, что ты не джентльмен. Эти мне гнусные англичане! Их так и пучит от денег и от запоров. Он, видите ли, из Оксфорда. А знаешь, Дедал, вот у тебя-то настоящий оксфордский стиль. Он все никак тебя не раскусит. Нет, лучшее тебе имя придумал я: Клинк, острый клинок.Он выбривал с усердием подбородок. Всю ночь бредил про какую-то черную пантеру,  проговорил Стивен.  Где у него ружье? Совсем малый спятил,  сказал Маллиган.  А ты перетрусил не на шутку? Еще бы,  произнес Стивен с энергией и нарастающим страхом.  В кромешном мраке, с каким-то незнакомцем, который стонет и бредит, что надо застрелить пантеру. Ты спасал тонущих[]. Но я, знаешь ли, не герой. Если он тут останется, я ухожу.Бык Маллиган глядел, насупясь, на бритву, покрытую мыльной пеной. Соскочив со своего возвышения, он торопливо стал рыться в карманах брюк. Драла!  пробормотал он сквозь зубы.Вернувшись к площадке, он запустил руку в верхний карман Стивена и сказал: Позвольте одолжиться вашим сморкальником, вытереть нашу бритву.Стивен покорно дал ему вытащить и развернуть напоказ, держа за угол, измятый и нечистый платок. Бык Маллиган заботливо вытер лезвие. Вслед за этим, разглядывая платок, он объявил: Сморкальник барда. Новый оттенок в палитру ирландского стихотворца: сопливо-зеленый. Почти ощущаешь вкус, правда?Он снова поднялся к парапету и бросил долгий взгляд на залив. Ветерок шевелил белокурую, под светлый дуб, шевелюру. Господи!  сказал он негромко.  Как верно названо море у Элд