    -- I --Stately, plump Buck Mulligan came from the stairhead, bearing a bowl oflather on which a mirror and a razor lay crossed. A yellow dressinggown,ungirdled, was sustained gently behind him on the mild morning air. Heheld the bowl aloft and intoned:--INTROIBO AD ALTARE DEI.Halted, he peered down the dark winding stairs and called out coarsely:--Come up, Kinch! Come up, you fearful jesuit!Solemnly he came forward and mounted the round gunrest. He facedabout and blessed gravely thrice the tower, the surrounding land and theawaking mountains. Then, catching sight of Stephen Dedalus, he benttowards him and made rapid crosses in the air, gurgling in his throat andshaking his head. Stephen Dedalus, displeased and sleepy, leaned his armson the top of the staircase and looked coldly at the shaking gurgling facethat blessed him, equine in its length, and at the light untonsured hair,grained and hued like pale oak.Buck Mulligan peeped an instant under the mirror and then coveredthe bowl smartly.--Back to barracks! he said sternly.He added in a preachers tone:--For this, O dearly beloved, is the genuine Christine: body and soul andblood and ouns. Slow music, please. Shut your eyes, gents. One moment. Alittle trouble about those white corpuscles. Silence, all.He peered sideways up and gave a long slow whistle of call, thenpaused awhile in rapt attention, his even white teeth glistening here andthere with gold points. Chrysostomos. Two strong shrill whistles answeredthrough the calm.--Thanks, old chap, he cried briskly. That will do nicely. Switch off thecurrent, will you?He skipped off the gunrest and looked gravely at his watcher,gathering about his legs the loose folds of his gown. The plump shadowedface and sullen oval jowl recalled a prelate, patron of arts in the middleages. A pleasant smile broke quietly over his lips.--The mockery of it! he said gaily. Your absurd name, an ancient Greek!He pointed his finger in friendly jest and went over to the parapet,laughing to himself. Stephen Dedalus stepped up, followed him wearilyhalfway and sat down on the edge of the gunrest, watching him still as hepropped his mirror on the parapet, dipped the brush in the bowl andlathered cheeks and neck.Buck Mulligans gay voice went on.--My name is absurd too: Malachi Mulligan, two dactyls. But it has aHellenic ring, hasnt it? Tripping and sunny like the buck himself. Wemust go to Athens. Will you come if I can get the aunt to fork out twentyquid?He laid the brush aside and, laughing with delight, cried:--Will he come? The jejune jesuit!Ceasing, he began to shave with care.--Tell me, Mulligan, Stephen said quietly.--Yes, my love?--How long is Haines going to stay in this tower?Buck Mulligan showed a shaven cheek over his right shoulder.--God, isnt he dreadful? he said frankly. A ponderous Saxon. He thinksyoure not a gentleman. God, these bloody English! Bursting with moneyand indigestion. Because he comes from Oxford. You know, Dedalus, youhave the real Oxford manner. He cant make you out. O, my name for youis the best: Kinch, the knife-blade.He shaved warily over his chin.--He was raving all night about a black panther, Stephen said. Where ishis guncase?--A woful lunatic! Mulligan said. Were you in a funk?--I was, Stephen said with energy and growing fear. Out here in the darkwith a man I dont know raving and moaning to himself about shooting ablack panther. You saved men from drowning. Im not a hero, however. Ifhe stays on here I am off.Buck Mulligan frowned at the lather on his razorblade. He hoppeddown from his perch and began to search his trouser pockets hastily.--Scutter! he cried thickly.He came over to the gunrest and, thrusting a hand into Stephensupper pocket, said:--Lend us a loan of your noserag to wipe my razor.Stephen suffered him to pull out and hold up on show by its corner adirty crumpled handkerchief. Buck Mulligan wiped the razorblade neatly.Then, gazing over the handkerchief, he said:--The bards noserag! A new art colour for our Irish poets: snotgreen.You can almost taste it, cant you?He mounted to the parapet again and gazed out over Dublin bay, hisfair oakpale hair stirring slightly.--God! he said quietly. Isnt the sea what Algy calls it: a great sweetmother? The snotgreen sea. The scrotumtightening sea. EPI OINOPA PONTON.Ah, Dedalus, the Greeks! I must teach you. You must read them in theoriginal. THALATTA! THALATTA! She is our great sweet mother. Come andlook.Stephen stood up and went over to the parapet. Leaning on it helooked down on the water and on the mailboat clearing the harbourmouthof Kingstown.--Our mighty mother! Buck Mulligan said.He turned abruptly his grey searching eyes from the sea to Stephensface.--The aunt thinks you killed your mother, he said. Thats why she wontlet me have anything to do with you.--Someone killed her, Stephen said gloomily.--You could have knelt down, damn it, Kinch, when your dying motherasked you, Buck Mulligan said. Im hyperborean as much as you. But tothink of your mother begging you with her last breath to kneel down andpray for her. And you refused. There is something sinister in you ...He broke off and lathered again lightly his farther cheek. A tolerantsmile curled his lips.--But a lovely mummer! he murmured to himself. Kinch, the loveliestmummer of them all!He shaved evenly and with care, in silence, seriously.Stephen, an elbow rested on the jagged granite, leaned his palmagainst his brow and gazed at the fraying edge of his shiny blackcoat-sleeve. Pain, that was not yet the pain of love, fretted his heart.Silently, in a dream she had come to him after her death, her wasted bodywithin its loose brown graveclothes giving off an odour of wax androsewood, her breath, that had bent upon him, mute, reproachful, a faintodour of wetted ashes. Across the threadbare cuffedge he saw the seahailed as a great sweet mother by the wellfed voice beside him. The ringof bay and skyline held a dull green mass of liquid. A bowl of white chinahad stood beside her deathbed holding the green sluggish bile which shehad torn up from her rotting liver by fits of loud groaning vomiting.Buck Mulligan wiped again his razorblade.--Ah, poor dogsbody! he said in a kind voice. I must give you a shirt anda few noserags. How are the secondhand breeks?--They fit well enough, Stephen answered.Buck Mulligan attacked the hollow beneath his underlip.--The mockery of it, he said contentedly. Secondleg they should be. Godknows what poxy bowsy left them off. I have a lovely pair with a hairstripe, grey. Youll look spiffing in them. Im not joking, Kinch. Youlook damn well when youre dressed.--Thanks, Stephen said. I cant wear them if they are grey.--He cant wear them, Buck Mulligan told his face in the mirror.Etiquette is etiquette. He kills his mother but he cant wear greytrousers.He folded his razor neatly and with stroking palps of fingers felt thesmooth skin.Stephen turned his gaze from the sea and to the plump face with itssmokeblue mobile eyes.--That fellow I was with in the Ship last night, said Buck Mulligan, saysyou have g.p.i. Hes up in Dottyville with Connolly Norman. Generalparalysis of the insane!He swept the mirror a half circle in the air to flash the tidings abroadin sunlight now radiant on the sea. His curling shaven lips laughed andthe edges of his white glittering teeth. Laughter seized all his strongwellknit trunk.--Look at yourself, he said, you dreadful bard!Stephen bent forward and peered at the mirror held out to him, cleftby a crooked crack. Hair on end. As he and others see me. Who chose thisface for me? This dogsbody to rid of vermin. It asks me too.--I pinched it out of the skivvys room, Buck Mulligan said. It does herall right. The aunt always keeps plainlooking servants for Malachi. Leadhim not into temptation. And her name is Ursula.Laughing again, he brought the mirror away from Stephens peeringeyes.--The rage of Caliban at not seeing his face in a mirror, he said. IfWilde were only alive to see you!Drawing back and pointing, Stephen said with bitterness:--It is a symbol of Irish art. The cracked looking-glass of a servant.Buck Mulligan suddenly linked his arm in Stephens and walked withhim round the tower, his razor and mirror clacking in the pocket where hehad thrust them.--Its not fair to tease you like that, Kinch, is it? he said kindly. Godknows you have more spirit than any of them.Parried again. He fears the lancet of my art as I fear that of his. Thecold steelpen.--Cracked lookingglass of a servant! Tell that to the oxy chap downstairsand touch him for a guinea. Hes stinking with money and thinks yourenot a gentleman. His old fellow made his tin by selling jalap to Zulus orsome bloody swindle or other. God, Kinch, if you and I could only worktogether we might do something for the island. Hellenise it.Cranlys arm. His arm.--And to think of your having to beg from these swine. Im the only onethat knows what you are. Why dont you trust me more? What have you upyour nose against me? Is it Haines? If he makes any noise here Ill bringdown Seymour and well give him a ragging worse than they gave CliveKempthorpe.Young shouts of moneyed voices in Clive Kempthorpes rooms. Palefaces:they hold their ribs with laughter, one clasping another. O, Ishall expire! Break the news to her gently, Aubrey! I shall die! With slitribbons of his shirt whipping the air he hops and hobbles round the table,with trousers down at heels, chased by Ades of Magdalen with the tailorsshears. A scared calfs face gilded with marmalade. I dont want to bedebagged! Dont you play the giddy ox with me!Shouts from the open window startling evening in the quadrangle. Adeaf gardener, aproned, masked with Matthew Arnolds face, pushes hismower on the sombre lawn watching narrowly the dancing motes ofgrasshalms.To ourselves ... new paganism ... omphalos.--Let him stay, Stephen said. Theres nothing wrong with him except atnight.--Then what is it? Buck Mulligan asked impatiently. Cough it up. Imquite frank with you. What have you against me now?They halted, looking towards the blunt cape of Bray Head that lay onthe water like the snout of a sleeping whale. Stephen freed his armquietly.--Do you wish me to tell you? he asked.--Yes, what is it? Buck Mulligan answered. I dont remember anything.He looked in Stephens face as he spoke. A light wind passed hisbrow, fanning softly his fair uncombed hair and stirring silver points ofanxiety in his eyes.Stephen, depressed by his own voice, said:--Do you remember the first day I went to your house after my mothersdeath?Buck Mulligan frowned quickly and said:--What? Where? I cant remember anything. I remember only ideas andsensations. Why? What happened in the name of God?--You were making tea, Stephen said, and went across the landing to getmore hot water. Your mother and some visitor came out of thedrawingroom. She asked you who was in your room.--Yes? Buck Mulligan said. What did I say? I forget.--You said, Stephen answered, O, ITS ONLY DEDALUS WHOSE MOTHER ISBEASTLY DEAD.A flush which made him seem younger and more engaging rose toBuck Mulligans cheek.--Did I say that? he asked. Well? What harm is that?He shook his constraint from him nervously.--And what is death, he asked, your mothers or yours or my own? Yousaw only your mother die. I see them pop off every day in the Mater andRichmond and cut up into tripes in the dissectingroom. Its a beastlything and nothing else. It simply doesnt matter. You wouldnt kneel downto pray for your mother on her deathbed when she asked you. Why? Becauseyou have the cursed jesuit strain in you, only its injected the wrongway. To me its all a mockery and beastly. Her cerebral lobes are notfunctioning. She calls the doctor sir Peter Teazle and picks buttercupsoff the quilt. Humour her till its over. You crossed her last wish indeath and yet you sulk with me because I dont whinge like some hired mutefrom Lalouettes. Absurd! I suppose I did say it. I didnt mean to offendthe memory of your mother.He had spoken himself into boldness. Stephen, shielding the gapingwounds which the words had left in his heart, said very coldly:--I am not thinking of the offence to my mother.--Of what then? Buck Mulligan asked.--Of the offence to me, Stephen answered.Buck Mulligan swung round on his heel.--O, an impossible person! he exclaimed.He walked off quickly round the parapet. Stephen stood at his post,gazing over the calm sea towards the headland. Sea and headland nowgrew dim. Pulses were beating in his eyes, veiling their sight, and hefelt the fever of his cheeks.A voice within the tower called loudly:--Are you up there, Mulligan?--Im coming, Buck Mulligan answered.He turned towards Stephen and said:--Look at the sea. What does it care about offences? Chuck Loyola, Kinch,and come on down. The Sassenach wants his morning rashers.His head halted again for a moment at the top of the staircase, levelwith the roof:--Dont mope over it all day, he said. Im inconsequent. Give up themoody brooding.His head vanished but the drone of his descending voice boomed outof the stairhead:    AND NO MORE TURN ASIDE AND BROOD   UPON LOVES BITTER MYSTERY   FOR FERGUS RULES THE BRAZEN CARS.Woodshadows floated silently by through the morning peace from thestairhead seaward where he gazed. Inshore and farther out the mirror ofwater whitened, spurned by lightshod hurrying feet. White breast of thedim sea. The twining stresses, two by two. A hand plucking theharpstrings, merging their twining chords. Wavewhite wedded wordsshimmering on the dim tide.A cloud began to cover the sun slowly, wholly, shadowing the bay indeeper green. It lay beneath him, a bowl of bitter waters. Fergus song: Isang it alone in the house, holding down the long dark chords. Her doorwas open: she wanted to hear my music. Silent with awe and pity I went toher bedside. She was crying in her wretched bed. For those words, Stephen:loves bitter mystery.Where now?Her secrets: old featherfans, tasselled dancecards, powdered withmusk, a gaud of amber beads in her locked drawer. A birdcage hung in thesunny window of her house when she was a girl. She heard old Royce singin the pantomime of Turko the Terrible and laughed with others when hesang:    I AM THE BOY    THAT CAN ENJOY    INVISIBILITY.Phantasmal mirth, folded away: muskperfumed.    AND NO MORE TURN ASIDE AND BROOD.Folded away in the memory of nature with her toys. Memories besethis brooding brain. Her glass of water from the kitchen tap when she hadapproached the sacrament. A cored apple, filled with brown sugar, roastingfor her at the hob on a dark autumn evening. Her shapely fingernailsreddened by the blood of squashed lice from the childrens shirts.In a dream, silently, she had come to him, her wasted body within itsloose graveclothes giving off an odour of wax and rosewood, her breath,bent over him with mute secret words, a faint odour of wetted ashes.Her glazing eyes, staring out of death, to shake and bend my soul. Onme alone. The ghostcandle to light her agony. Ghostly light on thetortured face. Her hoarse loud breath rattling in horror, while all prayedon their knees. Her eyes on me to strike me down. LILIATA RUTILANTIUM TECONFESSORUM TURMA CIRCUMDET: IUBILANTIUM TE VIRGINUM CHORUS EXCIPIAT.Ghoul! Chewer of corpses!No, mother! Let me be and let me live.--Kinch ahoy!Buck Mulligans voice sang from within the tower. It came nearer upthe staircase, calling again. Stephen, still trembling at his souls cry,heard warm running sunlight and in the air behind him friendly words.--Dedalus, come down, like a good mosey. Breakfast is ready. Haines isapologising for waking us last night. Its all right.--Im coming, Stephen said, turning.--Do, for Jesus sake, Buck Mulligan said. For my sake and for all oursakes.His head disappeared and reappeared.--I told him your symbol of Irish art. He says its very clever. Touchhim for a quid, will you? A guinea, I mean.--I get paid this morning, Stephen said.--The school kip? Buck Mulligan said. How much? Four quid? Lend usone.--If you want it, Stephen said.--Four shining sovereigns, Buck Mulligan cried with delight. Well have aglorious drunk to astonish the druidy druids. Four omnipotent sovereigns.He flung up his hands and tramped down the stone stairs, singing outof tune with a Cockney accent:    O, WONT WE HAVE A MERRY TIME,    DRINKING WHISKY, BEER AND WINE!    ON CORONATION,    CORONATION DAY!    O, WONT WE HAVE A MERRY TIME    ON CORONATION DAY!Warm sunshine merrying over the sea. The nickel shavingbowl shone,forgotten, on the parapet. Why should I bring it down? Or leave it thereall day, forgotten friendship?He went over to it, held it in his hands awhile, feeling its coolness,smelling the clammy slaver of the lather in which the brush was stuck. SoI carried the boat of incense then at Clongowes. I am another now and yetthe same. A servant too. A server of a servant.In the gloomy domed livingroom of the tower Buck Mulligansgowned form moved briskly to and fro about the hearth, hiding andrevealing its yellow glow. Two shafts of soft daylight fell across theflagged floor from the high barbacans: and at the meeting of their rays acloud of coalsmoke and fumes of fried grease floated, turning.--Well be choked, Buck Mulligan said. Haines, open that door, will you?Stephen laid the shavingbowl on the locker. A tall figure rose from thehammock where it had been sitting, went to the doorway and pulled openthe inner doors.--Have you the key? a voice asked.--Dedalus has it, Buck Mulligan said. Janey Mack, Im choked!He howled, without looking up from the fire:--Kinch!--Its in the lock, Stephen said, coming forward.The key scraped round harshly twice and, when the heavy door hadbeen set ajar, welcome light and bright air entered. Haines stood at thedoorway, looking out. Stephen haled his upended valise to the table andsat down to wait. Buck Mulligan tossed the fry on to the dish beside him.Then he carried the dish and a large teapot over to the table, set themdown heavily and sighed with relief.--Im melting, he said, as the candle remarked when ... But, hush! Not aword more on that subject! Kinch, wake up! Bread, butter, honey. Haines,come in. The grub is ready. Bless us, O Lord, and these thy gifts. Wheresthe sugar? O, jay, theres no milk.Stephen fetched the loaf and the pot of honey and the buttercoolerfrom the locker. Buck Mulligan sat down in a sudden pet.--What sort of a kip is this? he said. I told her to come after eight.--We can drink it black, Stephen said thirstily. Theres a lemon in thelocker.--O, damn you and your Paris fads! Buck Mulligan said. I want Sandycovemilk.Haines came in from the doorway and said quietly:--That woman is coming up with the milk.--The blessings of God on you! Buck Mulligan cried, jumping up from hischair. Sit down. Pour out the tea there. The sugar is in the bag. Here, Icant go fumbling at the damned eggs.He hacked through the fry on the dish and slapped it out on threeplates, saying:--IN NOMINE PATRIS ET FILII ET SPIRITUS SANCTI.Haines sat down to pour out the tea.--Im giving you two lumps each, he said. But, I say, Mulligan, you domake strong tea, dont you?Buck Mulligan, hewing thick slices from the loaf, said in an oldwomans wheedling voice:--When I makes tea I makes tea, as old mother Grogan said. And when Imakes water I makes water.--By Jove, it is tea, Haines said.Buck Mulligan went on hewing and wheedling:--SO I DO, MRS CAHILL, says she. BEGOB, MAAM, says Mrs Cahill, GOD SENDYOU DONT MAKE THEM IN THE ONE POT.He lunged towards his messmates in turn a thick slice of bread,impaled on his knife.--Thats folk, he said very earnestly, for your book, Haines. Five linesof text and ten pages of notes about the folk and the fishgods of Dundrum.Printed by the weird sisters in the year of the big wind.He turned to Stephen and asked in a fine puzzled voice, lifting hisbrows:--Can you recall, brother, is mother Grogans tea and water pot spoken ofin the Mabinogion or is it in the Upanishads?--I doubt it, said Stephen gravely.--Do you now? Buck Mulligan said in the same tone. Your reasons, pray?--I fancy, Stephen said as he ate, it did not exist in or out of theMabinogion. Mother Grogan was, one imagines, a kinswoman of MaryAnn.Buck Mulligans face smiled with delight.--Charming! he said in a finical sweet voice, showing his white teeth andblinking his eyes pleasantly. Do you think she was? Quite charming!Then, suddenly overclouding all his features, he growled in ahoarsened rasping voice as he hewed again vigorously at the loaf:  --FOR OLD MARY ANN    SHE DOESNT CARE A DAMN.    BUT, HISING UP HER PETTICOATS ...He crammed his mouth with fry and munched and droned.The doorway was darkened by an entering form.--The milk, sir!--Come in, maam, Mulligan said. Kinch, get the jug.An old woman came forward and stood by Stephens elbow.--Thats a lovely morning, sir, she said. Glory be to God.--To whom? Mulligan said, glancing at her. Ah, to be sure!Stephen reached back and took the milkjug from the locker.--The islanders, Mulligan said to Haines casually, speak frequently ofthe collector of prepuces.--How much, sir? asked the old woman.--A quart, Stephen said.He watched her pour into the measure and thence into the jug richwhite milk, not hers. Old shrunken paps. She poured again a measurefuland a tilly. Old and secret she had entered from a morning world, maybe amessenger. She praised the goodness of the milk, pouring it out. Crouchingby a patient cow at daybreak in the lush field, a witch on her toadstool,her wrinkled fingers quick at the squirting dugs. They lowed about herwhom they knew, dewsilky cattle. Silk of the kine and poor old woman,names given her in old times. A wandering crone, lowly form of an immortalserving her conqueror and her gay betrayer, their common cuckquean, amessenger from the secret morning. To serve or to upbraid, whether hecould not tell: but scorned to beg her favour.--It is indeed, maam, Buck Mulligan said, pouring milk into their cups.--Taste it, sir, she said.He drank at her bidding.--If we could live on good food like that, he said to her somewhatloudly, we wouldnt have the country full of rotten teeth and rotten guts.Living in a bogswamp, eating cheap food and the streets paved with dust,horsedung and consumptives spits.--Are you a medical student, sir? the old woman asked.--I am, maam, Buck Mulligan answered.--Look at that now, she said.Stephen listened in scornful silence. She bows her old head to a voicethat speaks to her loudly, her bonesetter, her medicineman: me sheslights. To the voice that will shrive and oil for the grave all there isof her but her womans unclean loins, of mans flesh made not in Godslikeness, the serpents prey. And to the loud voice that now bids her besilent with wondering unsteady eyes.--Do you understand what he says? Stephen asked her.--Is it French you are talking, sir? the old woman said to Haines.Haines spoke to her again a longer speech, confidently.--Irish, Buck Mulligan said. Is there Gaelic on you?--I thought it was Irish, she said, by the sound of it. Are you from thewest, sir?--I am an Englishman, Haines answered.--Hes English, Buck Mulligan said, and he thinks we ought to speak Irishin Ireland.--Sure we ought to, the old woman said, and Im ashamed I dont speak thelanguage myself. Im told its a grand language by them that knows.--Grand is no name for it, said Buck Mulligan. Wonderful entirely. Fillus out some more tea, Kinch. Would you like a cup, maam?--No, thank you, sir, the old woman said, slipping the ring of themilkcan on her forearm and about to go.Haines said to her:--Have you your bill? We had better pay her, Mulligan, hadnt we?Stephen filled again the three cups.--Bill, sir? she said, halting. Well, its seven mornings a pint attwopence is seven twos is a shilling and twopence over and these threemornings a quart at fourpence is three quarts is a shilling. Thats ashilling and one and two is two and two, sir.Buck Mulligan sighed and, having filled his mouth with a crustthickly buttered on both sides, stretched forth his legs and began tosearch his trouser pockets.--Pay up and look pleasant, Haines said to him, smiling.Stephen filled a third cup, a spoonful of tea colouring faintly the thickrich milk. Buck Mulligan brought up a florin, twisted it round in hisfingers and cried:--A miracle!He passed it along the table towards the old woman, saying:--Ask nothing more of me, sweet. All I can give you I give.Stephen laid the coin in her uneager hand.--Well owe twopence, he said.--Time enough, sir, she said, taking the coin. Time enough. Good morning,sir.She curtseyed and went out, followed by Buck Mulligans tenderchant:  --HEART OF MY HEART, WERE IT MORE,    MORE WOULD BE LAID AT YOUR FEET.He turned to Stephen and said:--Seriously, Dedalus. Im stony. Hurry out to your school kip and bringus back some money. Today the bards must drink and junket. Ireland expectsthat every man this day will do his duty.--That reminds me, Haines said, rising, that I have to visit yournational library today.--Our swim first, Buck Mulligan said.He turned to Stephen and asked blandly:--Is this the day for your monthly wash, Kinch?Then he said to Haines:--The unclean bard makes a point of washing once a month.--All Ireland is washed by the gulfstream, Stephen said as he let honeytrickle over a slice of the loaf.Haines from the corner where he was knotting easily a scarf aboutthe loose collar of his tennis shirt spoke:--I intend to make a collection of your sayings if you will let me.Speaking to me. They wash and tub and scrub. Agenbite of inwit.Conscience. Yet heres a spot.--That one about the cracked lookingglass of a servant being the symbolof Irish art is deuced good.Buck Mulligan kicked Stephens foot under the table and said withwarmth of tone:--Wait till you hear him on Hamlet, Haines.--Well, I mean it, Haines said, still speaking to Stephen. I was justthinking of it when that poor old creature came in.--Would I make any money by it? Stephen asked.Haines laughed and, as he took his soft grey hat from the holdfast ofthe hammock, said:--I dont know, Im sure.He strolled out to the doorway. Buck Mulligan bent across to Stephenand said with coarse vigour:--You put your hoof in it now. What did you say that for?--Well? Stephen said. The problem is to get money. From whom? From themilkwoman or from him. Its a toss up, I think.--I blow him out about you, Buck Mulligan said, and then you come alongwith your lousy leer and your gloomy jesuit jibes.--I see little hope, Stephen said, from her or from him.Buck Mulligan sighed tragically and laid his hand on Stephens arm.--From me, Kinch, he said.In a suddenly changed tone he added:--To tell you the Gods truth I think youre right. Damn all else theyare good for. Why dont you play them as I do? To hell with them all. Letus get out of the kip.He stood up, gravely ungirdled and disrobed himself of his gown,saying resignedly:--Mulligan is stripped of his garments.He emptied his pockets on to the table.--Theres your snotrag, he said.And putting on his stiff collar and rebellious tie he spoke to them,chiding them, and to his dangling watchchain. His hands plunged andrummaged in his trunk while he called for a clean handkerchief. God, wellsimply have to dress the character. I want puce gloves and green boots.Contradiction. Do I contradict myself? Very well then, I contradictmyself. Mercurial Malachi. A limp black missile flew out of his talkinghands.--And theres your Latin quarter hat, he said.Stephen picked it up and put it on. Haines called to them from thedoorway:--Are you coming, you fellows?--Im ready, Buck Mulligan answered, going towards the door. Come out,Kinch. You have eaten all we left, I suppose. Resigned he passed out withgrave words and gait, saying, wellnigh with sorrow:--And going forth he met Butterly.Stephen, taking his ashplant from its leaningplace, followed them outand, as they went down the ladder, pulled to the slow iron door and lockedit. He put the huge key in his inner pocket.At the foot of the ladder Buck Mulligan asked:--Did you bring the key?--I have it, Stephen said, preceding them.He walked on. Behind him he heard Buck Mulligan club with his heavybathtowel the leader shoots of ferns or grasses.--Down, sir! How dare you, sir!Haines asked:--Do you pay rent for this tower?--Twelve quid, Buck Mulligan said.--To the secretary of state for war, Stephen added over his shoulder.They halted while Haines surveyed the tower and said at last:--Rather bleak in wintertime, I should say. Martello you call it?--Billy Pitt had them built, Buck Mulligan said, when the French were onthe sea. But ours is the omphalos.--What is your idea of Hamlet? Haines asked Stephen.--No, no, Buck Mulligan shouted in pain. Im not equal to ThomasAquinas and the fiftyfive reasons he has made out to prop it up. Wait tillI have a few pints in me first.He turned to Stephen, saying, as he pulled down neatly the peaks ofhis primrose waistcoat:--You couldnt manage it under three pints, Kinch, could you?--It has waited so long, Stephen said listlessly, it can wait longer.--You pique my curiosity, Haines said amiably. Is it some paradox?--Pooh! Buck Mulligan said. We have grown out of Wilde and paradoxes.Its quite simple. He proves by algebra that Hamlets grandson isShakespeares grandfather and that he himself is the ghost of his ownfather.--What? Haines said, beginning to point at Stephen. He himself?Buck Mulligan slung his towel stolewise round his neck and, bendingin loose laughter, said to Stephens ear:--O, shade of Kinch the elder! Japhet in search of a father!--Were always tired in the morning, Stephen said to Haines. And it israther long to tell.Buck Mulligan, walking forward again, raised his hands.--The sacred pint alone can unbind the tongue of Dedalus, he said.--I mean to say, Haines explained to Stephen as they followed, this towerand these cliffs here remind me somehow of Elsinore. THAT BEETLES OER HISBASE INTO THE SEA, ISNT IT?Buck Mulligan turned suddenly. for an instant towards Stephen butdid not speak. In the bright silent instant Stephen saw his own image incheap dusty mourning between their gay attires.--Its a wonderful tale, Haines said, bringing them to halt again.Eyes, pale as the sea the wind had freshened, paler, firm and prudent.The seas ruler, he gazed southward over the bay, empty save for thesmokeplume of the mailboat vague on the bright skyline and a sail tackingby the Muglins.--I read a theological interpretation of it somewhere, he said bemused.The Father and the Son idea. The Son striving to be atoned with theFather.Buck Mulligan at once put on a blithe broadly smiling face. Helooked at them, his wellshaped mouth open happily, his eyes, from which hehad suddenly withdrawn all shrewd sense, blinking with mad gaiety. Hemoved a dolls head to and fro, the brims of his Panama hat quivering, andbegan to chant in a quiet happy foolish voice:  --IM THE QUEEREST YOUNG FELLOW THAT EVER YOU HEARD.    MY MOTHERS A JEW, MY FATHERS A BIRD.    WITH JOSEPH THE JOINER I CANNOT AGREE.    SO HERES TO DISCIPLES AND CALVARY.He held up a forefinger of warning.  --IF ANYONE THINKS THAT I AMNT DIVINE    HELL GET NO FREE DRINKS WHEN IM MAKING THE WINE    BUT HAVE TO DRINK WATER AND WISH IT WERE PLAIN    THAT I MAKE WHEN THE WINE BECOMES WATER AGAIN.He tugged swiftly at Stephens ashplant in farewell and, runningforward to a brow of the cliff, fluttered his hands at his sides like finsor wings of one about to rise in the air, and chanted:  --GOODBYE, NOW, GOODBYE! WRITE DOWN ALL I SAID    AND TELL TOM, DIEK AND HARRY I ROSE FROM THE DEAD.    WHATS BRED IN THE BONE CANNOT FAIL ME TO FLY    AND OLIVETS BREEZY ... GOODBYE, NOW, GOODBYE!He capered before them down towards the fortyfoot hole, flutteringhis winglike hands, leaping nimbly, Mercurys hat quivering in the freshwind that bore back to them his brief birdsweet cries.Haines, who had been laughing guardedly, walked on beside Stephenand said:--We oughtnt to laugh, I suppose. Hes rather blasphemous. Im not abeliever myself, that is to say. Still his gaiety takes the harm out of itsomehow, doesnt it? What did he call it? Joseph the Joiner?--The ballad of joking Jesus, Stephen answered.--O, Haines said, you have heard it before?--Three times a day, after meals, Stephen said drily.--Youre not a believer, are you? Haines asked. I mean, a believer in thenarrow sense of the word. Creation from nothing and miracles and apersonal God.--Theres only one sense of the word, it seems to me, Stephen said.Haines stopped to take out a smooth silver case in which twinkled agreen stone. He sprang it open with his thumb and offered it.--Thank you, Stephen said, taking a cigarette.Haines helped himself and snapped the case to. He put it back in hissidepocket and took from his waistcoatpocket a nickel tinderbox, sprang itopen too, and, having lit his cigarette, held the flaming spunk towardsStephen in the shell of his hands.--Yes, of course, he said, as they went on again. Either you believe oryou dont, isnt it? Personally I couldnt stomach that idea of a personalGod. You dont stand for that, I suppose?--You behold in me, Stephen said with grim displeasure, a horribleexample of free thought.He walked on, waiting to be spoken to, trailing his ashplant by hisside. Its ferrule followed lightly on the path, squealing at his heels. Myfamiliar, after me, calling, Steeeeeeeeeeeephen! A wavering line along thepath. They will walk on it tonight, coming here in the dark. He wants thatkey. It is mine. I paid the rent. Now I eat his salt bread. Give him thekey too. All. He will ask for it. That was in his eyes.--After all, Haines began ...Stephen turned and saw that the cold gaze which had measured himwas not all unkind.--After all, I should think you are able to free yourself. You are yourown master, it seems to me.--I am a servant of two masters, Stephen said, an English and an Italian.--Italian? Haines said.A crazy queen, old and jealous. Kneel down before me.--And a third, Stephen said, there is who wants me for odd jobs.--Italian? Haines said again. What do you mean?--The imperial British state, Stephen answered, his colour rising, andthe holy Roman catholic and apostolic church.Haines detached from his underlip some fibres of tobacco before hespoke.--I can quite understand that, he said calmly. An Irishman must thinklike that, I daresay. We feel in England that we have treated you ratherunfairly. It seems history is to blame.The proud potent titles clanged over Stephens memory the triumphof their brazen bells: ET UNAM SANCTAM CATHOLICAM ET APOSTOLICAMECCLESIAM: the slow growth and change of rite and dogma like his own rarethoughts, a chemistry of stars. Symbol of the apostles in the mass forpope Marcellus, the voices blended, singing alone loud in affirmation: andbehind their chant the vigilant angel of the church militant disarmed andmenaced her heresiarchs. A horde of heresies fleeing with mitres awry:Photius and the brood of mockers of whom Mulligan was one, and Arius,warring his life long upon the consubstantiality of the Son with theFather, and Valentine, spurning Christs terrene body, and the subtleAfrican heresiarch Sabellius who held that the Father was Himself His ownSon. Words Mulligan had spoken a moment since in mockery to the stranger.Idle mockery. The void awaits surely all them that weave the wind: amenace, a disarming and a worsting from those embattled angels of thechurch, Michaels host, who defend her ever in the hour of conflict withtheir lances and their shields.Hear, hear! Prolonged applause. ZUT! NOM DE DIEU!--Of course Im a Britisher, Hainess voice said, and I feel as one. Idont want to see my country fall into the hands of German jews either.Thats our national problem, Im afraid, just now.Two men stood at the verge of the cliff, watching: businessman,boatman.--Shes making for Bullock harbour.The boatman nodded towards the north of the bay with some disdain.--Theres five fathoms out there, he said. Itll be swept up that waywhen the tide comes in about one. Its nine days today.The man that was drowned. A sail veering about the blank baywaiting for a swollen bundle to bob up, roll over to the sun a puffy face,saltwhite. Here I am.They followed the winding path down to the creek. Buck Mulliganstood on a stone, in shirtsleeves, his unclipped tie rippling over hisshoulder. A young man clinging to a spur of rock near him, moved slowlyfrogwise his green legs in the deep jelly of the water.--Is the brother with you, Malachi?--Down in Westmeath. With the Bannons.--Still there? I got a card from Bannon. Says he found a sweet youngthing down there. Photo girl he calls her.--Snapshot, eh? Brief exposure.Buck Mulligan sat down to unlace his boots. An elderly man shot upnear the spur of rock a blowing red face. He scrambled up by the stones,water glistening on his pate and on its garland of grey hair, waterrilling over his chest and paunch and spilling jets out of his blacksagging loincloth.Buck Mulligan made way for him to scramble past and, glancing atHaines and Stephen, crossed himself piously with his thumbnail at browand lips and breastbone.--Seymours back in town, the young man said, grasping again his spur ofrock. Chucked medicine and going in for the army.--Ah, go to God! Buck Mulligan said.--Going over next week to stew. You know that red Carlisle girl, Lily?--Yes.--Spooning with him last night on the pier. The father is rotto withmoney.--Is she up the pole?--Better ask Seymour that.--Seymour a bleeding officer! Buck Mulligan said.He nodded to himself as he drew off his trousers and stood up, sayingtritely:--Redheaded women buck like goats.He broke off in alarm, feeling his side under his flapping shirt.--My twelfth rib is gone, he cried. Im the ubermench. Toothless Kinchand I, the supermen.He struggled out of his shirt and flung it behind him to where hisclothes lay.--Are you going in here, Malachi?--Yes. Make room in the bed.The young man shoved himself backward through the water andreached the middle of the creek in two long clean strokes. Haines sat downon a stone, smoking.--Are you not coming in? Buck Mulligan asked.--Later on, Haines said. Not on my breakfast.Stephen turned away.--Im going, Mulligan, he said.--Give us that key, Kinch, Buck Mulligan said, to keep my chemise flat.Stephen handed him the key. Buck Mulligan laid it across his heapedclothes.--And twopence, he said, for a pint. Throw it there.Stephen threw two pennies on the soft heap. Dressing, undressing.Buck Mulligan erect, with joined hands before him, said solemnly:--He who stealeth from the poor lendeth to the Lord. Thus spakeZarathustra.His plump body plunged.--Well see you again, Haines said, turning as Stephen walked up the pathand smiling at wild Irish.Horn of a bull, hoof of a horse, smile of a Saxon.--The Ship, Buck Mulligan cried. Half twelve.--Good, Stephen said.He walked along the upwardcurving path.    LILIATA RUTILANTIUM.    TURMA CIRCUMDET.    IUBILANTIUM TE VIRGINUM.The priests grey nimbus in a niche where he dressed discreetly. I willnot sleep here tonight. Home also I cannot go.A voice, sweettoned and sustained, called to him from the sea.Turning the curve he waved his hand. It called again. A sleek brown head,a seals, far out on the water, round.Usurper.    * * * * * * *--You, Cochrane, what city sent for him?--Tarentum, sir.--Very good. Well?--There was a battle, sir.--Very good. Where?The boys blank face asked the blank window.Fabled by the daughters of memory. And yet it was in some way if notas memory fabled it. A phrase, then, of impatience, thud of Blakes wingsof excess. I hear the ruin of all space, shattered glass and topplingmasonry, and time one livid final flame. Whats left us then?--I forget the place, sir.  B. C.--Asculum, Stephen said, glancing at the name and date in the gorescarredbook.--Yes, sir. And he said: ANOTHER VICTORY LIKE THAT AND WE ARE DONE FOR.That phrase the world had remembered. A dull ease of the mind.From a hill above a corpsestrewn plain a general speaking to his officers,leaned upon his spear. Any general to any officers. They lend ear.--You, Armstrong, Stephen said. What was the end of Pyrrhus?--End of Pyrrhus, sir?--I know, sir. Ask me, sir, Comyn said.--Wait. You, Armstrong. Do you know anything about Pyrrhus?A bag of figrolls lay snugly in Armstrongs satchel. He curled thembetween his palms at whiles and swallowed them softly. Crumbs adhered tothe tissue of his lips. A sweetened boys breath. Welloff people, proudthat their eldest son was in the navy. Vico road, Dalkey.--Pyrrhus, sir? Pyrrhus, a pier.All laughed. Mirthless high malicious laughter. Armstrong lookedround at his classmates, silly glee in profile. In a moment they willlaugh more loudly, aware of my lack of rule and of the fees their papaspay.--Tell me now, Stephen said, poking the boys shoulder with the book,what is a pier.--A pier, sir, Armstrong said. A thing out in the water. A kind of abridge. Kingstown pier, sir.Some laughed again: mirthless but with meaning. Two in the backbench whispered. Yes. They knew: had never learned nor ever beeninnocent. All. With envy he watched their faces: Edith, Ethel, Gerty,Lily. Their likes: their breaths, too, sweetened with tea and jam, theirbracelets tittering in the struggle.--Kingstown pier, Stephen said. Yes, a disappointed bridge.The words troubled their gaze.--How, sir? Comyn asked. A bridge is across a river.For Hainess chapbook. No-one here to hear. Tonight deftly amidwild drink and talk, to pierce the polished mail of his mind. What then? Ajester at the court of his master, indulged and disesteemed, winning aclement masters praise. Why had they chosen all that part? Not wholly forthe smooth caress. For them too history was a tale like any other toooften heard, their land a pawnshop.Had Pyrrhus not fallen by a beldams hand in Argos or Julius Caesarnot been knifed to death. They are not to be thought away. Time hasbranded them and fettered they are lodged in the room of the infinitepossibilities they have ousted. But can those have been possible seeingthat they never were? Or was that only possible which came to pass? Weave,weaver of the wind.--Tell us a story, sir.--O, do, sir. A ghoststory.--Where do you begin in this? Stephen asked, opening another book.--WEEP NO MORE, Comyn said.--Go on then, Talbot.--And the story, sir?--After, Stephen said. Go on, Talbot.A swarthy boy opened a book and propped it nimbly under thebreastwork of his satchel. He recited jerks of verse with odd glances atthe text:  --WEEP NO MORE, WOFUL SHEPHERDS, WEEP NO MORE    FOR LYCIDAS, YOUR SORROW, IS NOT DEAD,    SUNK THOUGH HE BE BENEATH THE WATERY FLOOR ...It must be a movement then, an actuality of the possible as possible.Aristotles phrase formed itself within the gabbled verses and floated outinto the studious silence of the library of Saint Genevieve where he hadread, sheltered from the sin of Paris, night by night. By his elbow adelicate Siamese conned a handbook of strategy. Fed and feeding brainsabout me: under glowlamps, impaled, with faintly beating feelers: and inmy minds darkness a sloth of the underworld, reluctant, shy ofbrightness, shifting her dragon scaly folds. Thought is the thought ofthought. Tranquil brightness. The soul is in a manner all that is: thesoul is the form of forms. Tranquility sudden, vast, candescent: form offorms.Talbot repeated:  --THROUGH THE DEAR MIGHT OF HIM THAT WALKED THE WAVES,    THROUGH THE DEAR MIGHT ...--Turn over, Stephen said quietly. I dont see anything.--What, sir? Talbot asked simply, bending forward.His hand turned the page over. He leaned back and went on again,having just remembered. Of him that walked the waves. Here also overthese craven hearts his shadow lies and on the scoffers heart and lipsand on mine. It lies upon their eager faces who offered him a coin of thetribute. To Caesar what is Caesars, to God what is Gods. A long lookfrom dark eyes, a riddling sentence to be woven and woven on the churchslooms. Ay.    RIDDLE ME, RIDDLE ME, RANDY RO.    MY FATHER GAVE ME SEEDS TO SOW.Talbot slid his closed book into his satchel.--Have I heard all? Stephen asked.--Yes, sir. Hockey at ten, sir.--Half day, sir. Thursday.--Who can answer a riddle? Stephen asked.They bundled their books away, pencils clacking, pages rustling.Crowding together they strapped and buckled their satchels, all gabblinggaily:--A riddle, sir? Ask me, sir.--O, ask me, sir.--A hard one, sir.--This is the riddle, Stephen said:    THE COCK CREW,    THE SKY WAS BLUE:    THE BELLS IN HEAVEN    WERE STRIKING ELEVEN.    TIS TIME FOR THIS POOR SOUL    TO GO TO HEAVEN.What is that?--What, sir?--Again, sir. We didnt hear.Their eyes grew bigger as the lines were repeated. After a silenceCochrane said:--What is it, sir? We give it up.Stephen, his throat itching, answered:--The fox burying his grandmother under a hollybush.He stood up and gave a shout of nervous laughter to which their criesechoed dismay.A stick struck the door and a voice in the corridor called:--Hockey!They broke asunder, sidling out of their benches, leaping them.Quickly they were gone and from the lumberroom came the rattle of sticksand clamour of their boots and tongues.Sargent who alone had lingered came forward slowly, showing anopen copybook. His thick hair and scraggy neck gave witness ofunreadiness and through his misty glasses weak eyes looked up pleading.On his cheek, dull and bloodless, a soft stain of ink lay, dateshaped,recent and damp as a snails bed.He held out his copybook. The word Sums was written on theheadline. Beneath were sloping figures and at the foot a crooked signaturewith blind loops and a blot. Cyril Sargent: his name and seal.--Mr Deasy told me to write them out all again, he said, and show them toyou, sir.Stephen touched the edges of the book. Futility.--Do you understand how to do them now? he asked.--Numbers eleven to fifteen, Sargent answered. Mr Deasy said I was tocopy them off the board, sir.--Can you do them. yourself? Stephen asked.--No, sir.Ugly and futile: lean neck and thick hair and a stain of ink, a snailsbed. Yet someone had loved him, borne him in her arms and in her heart.But for her the race of the world would have trampled him underfoot, asquashed boneless snail. She had loved his weak watery blood drained fromher own. Was that then real? The only true thing in life? His mothersprostrate body the fiery Columbanus in holy zeal bestrode. She was nomore: the trembling skeleton of a twig burnt in the fire, an odour ofrosewood and wetted ashes. She had saved him from being trampledunderfoot and had gone, scarcely having been. A poor soul gone to heaven:and on a heath beneath winking stars a fox, red reek of rapine in his fur,with merciless bright eyes scraped in the earth, listened, scraped up theearth, listened, scraped and scraped.Sitting at his side Stephen solved out the problem. He proves byalgebra that Shakespeares ghost is Hamlets grandfather. Sargent peeredaskance through his slanted glasses. Hockeysticks rattled in thelumberroom: the hollow knock of a ball and calls from the field.Across the page the symbols moved in grave morrice, in the mummeryof their letters, wearing quaint caps of squares and cubes. Give hands,traverse, bow to partner: so: imps of fancy of the Moors. Gone too fromthe world, Averroes and Moses Maimonides, dark men in mien andmovement, flashing in their mocking mirrors the obscure soul of theworld, a darkness shining in brightness which brightness could notcomprehend.--Do you understand now? Can you work the second for yourself?--Yes, sir.In long shaky strokes Sargent copied the data. Waiting always for aword of help his hand moved faithfully the unsteady symbols, a faint hueof shame flickering behind his dull skin. Amor matris: subjective andobjective genitive. With her weak blood and wheysour milk she had fed himand hid from sight of others his swaddling bands.Like him was I, these sloping shoulders, this gracelessness. Mychildhood bends beside me. Too far for me to lay a hand there once orlightly. Mine is far and his secret as our eyes. Secrets, silent, stonysit in the dark palaces of both our hearts: secrets weary of theirtyranny: tyrants, willing to be dethroned.The sum was done.--It is very simple, Stephen said as he stood up.--Yes, sir. Thanks, Sargent answered.He dried the page with a sheet of thin blottingpaper and carried hiscopybook back to his bench.--You had better get your stick and go out to the others, Stephen said ashe followed towards the door the boys graceless form.--Yes, sir.In the corridor his name was heard, called from the playfield.--Sargent!--Run on, Stephen said. Mr Deasy is calling you.He stood in the porch and watched the laggard hurry towards thescrappy field where sharp voices were in strife. They were sorted in teamsand Mr Deasy came away stepping over wisps of grass with gaitered feet.When he had reached the schoolhouse voices again contending called tohim. He turned his angry white moustache.--What is it now? he cried continually without listening.--Cochrane and Halliday are on the same side, sir, Stephen said.--Will you wait in my study for a moment, Mr Deasy said, till I restoreorder here.And as he stepped fussily back across the field his old mans voicecried sternly:--What is the matter? What is it now?Their sharp voices cried about him on all sides: their many formsclosed round him, the garish sunshine bleaching the honey of his illdyedhead.Stale smoky air hung in the study with the smell of drab abradedleather of its chairs. As on the first day he bargained with me here. Asit was in the beginning, is now. On the sideboard the tray of Stuartcoins, base treasure of a bog: and ever shall be. And snug in theirspooncase of purple plush, faded, the twelve apostles having preached toall the gentiles: world without end.A hasty step over the stone porch and in the corridor. Blowing out hisrare moustache Mr Deasy halted at the table.--First, our little financial settlement, he said.He brought out of his coat a pocketbook bound by a leather thong. Itslapped open and he took from it two notes, one of joined halves, and laidthem carefully on the table.--Two, he said, strapping and stowing his pocketbook away.And now his strongroom for the gold. Stephens embarrassed handmoved over the shells heaped in the cold stone mortar: whelks and moneycowries and leopard shells: and this, whorled as an emirs turban, andthis, the scallop of saint James. An old pilgrims hoard, dead treasure,hollow shells.A sovereign fell, bright and new, on the soft pile of the tablecloth.--Three, Mr Deasy said, turning his little savingsbox about in his hand.These are handy things to have. See. This is for sovereigns. This is forshillings. Sixpences, halfcrowns. And here crowns. See.He shot from it two crowns and two shillings.--Three twelve, he said. I think youll find thats right.--Thank you, sir, Stephen said, gathering the money together with shyhaste and putting it all in a pocket of his trousers.--No thanks at all, Mr Deasy said. You have earned it.Stephens hand, free again, went back to the hollow shells. Symbolstoo of beauty and of power. A lump in my pocket: symbols soiled by greedand misery.--Dont carry it like that, Mr Deasy said. Youll pull it out somewhereand lose it. You just buy one of these machines. Youll find them veryhandy.Answer something.--Mine would be often empty, Stephen said.The same room and hour, the same wisdom: and I the same. Threetimes now. Three nooses round me here. Well? I can break them in thisinstant if I will.--Because you dont save, Mr Deasy said, pointing his finger. You dontknow yet what money is. Money is power. When you have lived as long as Ihave. I know, I know. If youth but knew. But what does Shakespeare say?PUT BUT MONEY IN THY PURSE.--Iago, Stephen murmured.He lifted his gaze from the idle shells to the old mans stare.--He knew what money was, Mr Deasy said. He made money. A poet, yes,but an Englishman too. Do you know what is the pride of the English? Doyou know what is the proudest word you will ever hear from anEnglishmans mouth?The seas ruler. His seacold eyes looked on the empty bay: it seemshistory is to blame: on me and on my words, unhating.--That on his empire, Stephen said, the sun never sets.--Ba! Mr Deasy cried. Thats not English. A French Celt said that. Hetapped his savingsbox against his thumbnail.--I will tell you, he said solemnly, what is his proudest boast. I PAIDMY WAY.Good man, good man.--I PAID MY WAY. I NEVER BORROWED A SHILLING IN MY LIFE. Can you feelthat? I OWE NOTHING. Can you?Mulligan, nine pounds, three pairs of socks, one pair brogues, ties.Curran, ten guineas. McCann, one guinea. Fred Ryan, two shillings.Temple, two lunches. Russell, one guinea, Cousins, ten shillings, BobReynolds, half a guinea, Koehler, three guineas, Mrs MacKernan, fiveweeks board. The lump I have is useless.--For the moment, no, Stephen answered.Mr Deasy laughed with rich delight, putting back his savingsbox.--I knew you couldnt, he said joyously. But one day you must feel it. Weare a generous people but we must also be just.--I fear those big words, Stephen said, which make us so unhappy.Mr Deasy stared sternly for some moments over the mantelpiece atthe shapely bulk of a man in tartan filibegs: Albert Edward, prince ofWales.--You think me an old fogey and an old tory, his thoughtful voice said. Isaw three generations since OConnells time. I remember the faminein . Do you know that the orange lodges agitated for repeal of theunion twenty years before OConnell did or before the prelates of yourcommunion denounced him as a demagogue? You fenians forget some things.Glorious, pious and immortal memory. The lodge of Diamond inArmagh the splendid behung with corpses of papishes. Hoarse, masked andarmed, the planters covenant. The black north and true blue bible.Croppies lie down.Stephen sketched a brief gesture.--I have rebel blood in me too, Mr Deasy said. On the spindle side. But Iam descended from sir John Blackwood who voted for the union. We are allIrish, all kings sons.--Alas, Stephen said.--PER VIAS RECTAS, Mr Deasy said firmly, was his motto. He voted for itand put on his topboots to ride to Dublin from the Ards of Down to do so.    LAL THE RAL THE RA    THE ROCKY ROAD TO DUBLIN.A gruff squire on horseback with shiny topboots. Soft day, sir John!Soft day, your honour! ... Day! ... Day! ... Two topboots jog danglingon to Dublin. Lal the ral the ra. Lal the ral the raddy.--That reminds me, Mr Deasy said. You can do me a favour, Mr Dedalus,with some of your literary friends. I have a letter here for the press.Sit down a moment. I have just to copy the end.He went to the desk near the window, pulled in his chair twice andread off some words from the sheet on the drum of his typewriter.--Sit down. Excuse me, he said over his shoulder, THE DICTATES OF COMMONSENSE. Just a moment.He peered from under his shaggy brows at the manuscript by hiselbow and, muttering, began to prod the stiff buttons of the keyboardslowly, sometimes blowing as he screwed up the drum to erase an error.Stephen seated himself noiselessly before the princely presence.Framed around the walls images of vanished horses stood in homage, theirmeek heads poised in air: lord Hastings Repulse, the duke ofWestminsters Shotover, the duke of Beauforts Ceylon, PRIX DE PARIS,. Elfin riders sat them, watchful of a sign. He saw their speeds,backing kings colours, and shouted with the shouts of vanished crowds.--Full stop, Mr Deasy bade his keys. But prompt ventilation of thisallimportant question ...Where Cranly led me to get rich quick, hunting his winners amongthe mudsplashed brakes, amid the bawls of bookies on their pitches andreek of the canteen, over the motley slush. Fair Rebel! Fair Rebel! Evenmoney the favourite: ten to one the field. Dicers and thimbleriggers wehurried by after the hoofs, the vying caps and jackets and past themeatfaced woman, a butchers dame, nuzzling thirstily her clove of orange.Shouts rang shrill from the boys playfield and a whirring whistle.Again: a goal. I am among them, among their battling bodies in amedley, the joust of life. You mean that knockkneed mothers darling whoseems to be slightly crawsick? Jousts. Time shocked rebounds, shock byshock. Jousts, slush and uproar of battles, the frozen deathspew of theslain, a shout of spearspikes baited with mens bloodied guts.--Now then, Mr Deasy said, rising.He came to the table, pinning together his sheets. Stephen stood up.--I have put the matter into a nutshell, Mr Deasy said. Its about thefoot and mouth disease. Just look through it. There can be no two opinionson the matter.May I trespass on your valuable space. That doctrine of LAISSEZ FAIREwhich so often in our history. Our cattle trade. The way of all our oldindustries. Liverpool ring which jockeyed the Galway harbour scheme.European conflagration. Grain supplies through the narrow waters of thechannel. The pluterperfect imperturbability of the department ofagriculture. Pardoned a classical allusion. Cassandra. By a woman whowas no better than she should be. To come to the point at issue.--I dont mince words, do I? Mr Deasy asked as Stephen read on.Foot and mouth disease. Known as Kochs preparation. Serum andvirus. Percentage of salted horses. Rinderpest. Emperors horses atMurzsteg, lower Austria. Veterinary surgeons. Mr Henry Blackwood Price.Courteous offer a fair trial. Dictates of common sense. Allimportantquestion. In every sense of the word take the bull by the horns. Thankingyou for the hospitality of your columns.--I want that to be printed and read, Mr Deasy said. You will see at thenext outbreak they will put an embargo on Irish cattle. And it can becured. It is cured. My cousin, Blackwood Price, writes to me it isregularly treated and cured in Austria by cattledoctors there. They offerto come over here. I am trying to work up influence with the department.Now Im going to try publicity. I am surrounded by difficulties,by ... intrigues by ... backstairs influence by ...He raised his forefinger and beat the air oldly before his voice spoke.--Mark my words, Mr Dedalus, he said. England is in the hands of thejews. In all the highest places: her finance, her press. And they are thesigns of a nations decay. Wherever they gather they eat up the nationsvital strength. I have seen it coming these years. As sure as we arestanding here the jew merchants are already at their work of destruction.Old England is dying.He stepped swiftly off, his eyes coming to blue life as they passed abroad sunbeam. He faced about and back again.--Dying, he said again, if not dead by now.    THE HARLOTS CRY FROM STREET TO STREET    SHALL WEAVE OLD ENGLANDS WINDINGSHEET.His eyes open wide in vision stared sternly across the sunbeam inwhich he halted.--A merchant, Stephen said, is one who buys cheap and sells dear, jew orgentile, is he not?--They sinned against the light, Mr Deasy said gravely. And you can seethe darkness in their eyes. And that is why they are wanderers on theearth to this day.On the steps of the Paris stock exchange the goldskinned men quotingprices on their gemmed fingers. Gabble of geese. They swarmed loud,uncouth about the temple, their heads thickplotting under maladroit silkhats. Not theirs: these clothes, this speech, these gestures. Their fullslow eyes belied the words, the gestures eager and unoffending, but knewthe rancours massed about them and knew their zeal was vain. Vain patienceto heap and hoard. Time surely would scatter all. A hoard heaped by theroadside: plundered and passing on. Their eyes knew their years ofwandering and, patient, knew the dishonours of their flesh.--Who has not? Stephen said.--What do you mean? Mr Deasy asked.He came forward a pace and stood by the table. His underjaw fellsideways open uncertainly. Is this old wisdom? He waits to hear from me.--History, Stephen said, is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake.From the playfield the boys raised a shout. A whirring whistle: goal.What if that nightmare gave you a back kick?--The ways of the Creator are not our ways, Mr Deasy said. All humanhistory moves towards one great goal, the manifestation of God.Stephen jerked his thumb towards the window, saying:--That is God.Hooray! Ay! Whrrwhee!--What? Mr Deasy asked.--A shout in the street, Stephen answered, shrugging his shoulders.Mr Deasy looked down and held for awhile the wings of his nosetweaked between his fingers. Looking up again he set them free.--I am happier than you are, he said. We have committed many errors andmany sins. A woman brought sin into the world. For a woman who was nobetter than she should be, Helen, the runaway wife of Menelaus, ten yearsthe Greeks made war on Troy. A faithless wife first brought the strangersto our shore here, MacMurroughs wife and her leman, ORourke, prince ofBreffni. A woman too brought Parnell low. Many errors, many failures butnot the one sin. I am a struggler now at the end of my days. But I willfight for the right till the end.    FOR ULSTER WILL FIGHT    AND ULSTER WILL BE RIGHT.Stephen raised the sheets in his hand.--Well, sir, he began ...--I foresee, Mr Deasy said, that you will not remain here very long atthis work. You were not born to be a teacher, I think. Perhaps I am wrong.--A learner rather, Stephen said.And here what will you learn more?Mr Deasy shook his head.--Who knows? he said. To learn one must be humble. But life is the greatteacher.Stephen rustled the sheets again.--As regards these, he began.--Yes, Mr Deasy said. You have two copies there. If you can have thempublished at once.TELEGRAPH. IRISH HOMESTEAD.--I will try, Stephen said, and let you know tomorrow. I know two editorsslightly.--That will do, Mr Deasy said briskly. I wrote last night to Mr Field,M.P. There is a meeting of the cattletraders association today at theCity Arms hotel. I asked him to lay my letter before the meeting. You seeif you can get it into your two papers. What are they?--THE EVENING TELEGRAPH ...--That will do, Mr Deasy said. There is no time to lose. Now I have toanswer that letter from my cousin.--Good morning, sir, Stephen said, putting the sheets in his pocket.Thank you.--Not at all, Mr Deasy said as he searched the papers on his desk. I liketo break a lance with you, old as I am.--Good morning, sir, Stephen said again, bowing to his bent back.He went out by the open porch and down the gravel path under thetrees, hearing the cries of voices and crack of sticks from the playfield.The lions couchant on the pillars as he passed out through the gate:toothless terrors. Still I will help him in his fight. Mulligan will dubme a new name: the bullockbefriending bard.--Mr Dedalus!Running after me. No more letters, I hope.--Just one moment.--Yes, sir, Stephen said, turning back at the gate.Mr Deasy halted, breathing hard and swallowing his breath.--I just wanted to say, he said. Ireland, they say, has the honour ofbeing the only country which never persecuted the jews. Do you know that?No. And do you know why?He frowned sternly on the bright air.--Why, sir? Stephen asked, beginning to smile.--Because she never let them in, Mr Deasy said solemnly.A coughball of laughter leaped from his throat dragging after it arattling chain of phlegm. He turned back quickly, coughing, laughing, hislifted arms waving to the air.--She never let them in, he cried again through his laughter as hestamped on gaitered feet over the gravel of the path. Thats why.On his wise shoulders through the checkerwork of leaves the sun flungspangles, dancing coins.    * * * * * * *Ineluctable modality of the visible: at least that if no more, thoughtthrough my eyes. Signatures of all things I am here to read, seaspawn andseawrack, the nearing tide, that rusty boot. Snotgreen, bluesilver, rust:coloured signs. Limits of the diaphane. But he adds: in bodies. Then hewas aware of them bodies before of them coloured. How? By knocking hissconce against them, sure. Go easy. Bald he was and a millionaire, MAESTRODI COLOR CHE SANNO. Limit of the diaphane in. Why in? Diaphane,adiaphane. If you can put your five fingers through it it is a gate, ifnot a door. Shut your eyes and see.Stephen closed his eyes to hear his boots crush crackling wrack andshells. You are walking through it howsomever. I am, a stride at a time. Avery short space of time through very short times of space. Five, six: theNACHEINANDER. Exactly: and that is the ineluctable modality of theaudible. Open your eyes. No. Jesus! If I fell over a cliff that beetlesoer his base, fell through the NEBENEINANDER ineluctably! I am getting onnicely in the dark. My ash sword hangs at my side. Tap with it: they do.My two feet in his boots are at the ends of his legs, NEBENEINANDER.Sounds solid: made by the mallet of LOS DEMIURGOS. Am I walking intoeternity along Sandymount strand? Crush, crack, crick, crick. Wild seamoney. Dominie Deasy kens them a.    WONT YOU COME TO SANDYMOUNT,    MADELINE THE MARE?Rhythm begins, you see. I hear. Acatalectic tetrameter of iambsmarching. No, agallop: DELINE THE MARE.Open your eyes now. I will. One moment. Has all vanished since? If Iopen and am for ever in the black adiaphane. BASTA! I will see if I cansee.See now. There all the time without you: and ever shall be, worldwithout end.They came down the steps from Leahys terrace prudently,FRAUENZIMMER: and down the shelving shore flabbily, their splayed feetsinking in the silted sand. Like me, like Algy, coming down to our mightymother. Number one swung lourdily her midwifes bag, the others gamppoked in the beach. From the liberties, out for the day. Mrs FlorenceMacCabe, relict of the late Patk MacCabe, deeply lamented, of BrideStreet. One of her sisterhood lugged me squealing into life. Creation fromnothing. What has she in the bag? A misbirth with a trailing navelcord,hushed in ruddy wool. The cords of all link back, strandentwining cable ofall flesh. That is why mystic monks. Will you be as gods? Gaze in youromphalos. Hello! Kinch here. Put me on to Edenville. Aleph, alpha: nought,nought, one.Spouse and helpmate of Adam Kadmon: Heva, naked Eve. She hadno navel. Gaze. Belly without blemish, bulging big, a buckler of tautvellum, no, whiteheaped corn, orient and immortal, standing fromeverlasting to everlasting. Womb of sin.Wombed in sin darkness I was too, made not begotten. By them, theman with my voice and my eyes and a ghostwoman with ashes on herbreath. They clasped and sundered, did the couplers will. From before theages He willed me and now may not will me away or ever. A LEX ETERNAstays about Him. Is that then the divine substance wherein Father and Sonare consubstantial? Where is poor dear Arius to try conclusions? Warringhis life long upon the contransmagnificandjewbangtantiality. Illstarredheresiarch In a Greek watercloset he breathed his last: euthanasia. Withbeaded mitre and with crozier, stalled upon his throne, widower of awidowed see, with upstiffed omophorion, with clotted hinderparts.Airs romped round him, nipping and eager airs. They are coming,waves. The whitemaned seahorses, champing, brightwindbridled, the steedsof Mananaan.I mustnt forget his letter for the press. And after? The Ship, halftwelve. By the way go easy with that money like a good young imbecile.Yes, I must.His pace slackened. Here. Am I going to aunt Saras or not? Myconsubstantial fathers voice. Did you see anything of your artist brotherStephen lately? No? Sure hes not down in Strasburg terrace with his auntSally? Couldnt he fly a bit higher than that, eh? And and and and tellus, Stephen, how is uncle Si? O, weeping God, the things I married into!De boys up in de hayloft. The drunken little costdrawer and his brother,the cornet player. Highly respectable gondoliers! And skeweyed Waltersirring his father, no less! Sir. Yes, sir. No, sir. Jesus wept: and nowonder, by Christ!I pull the wheezy bell of their shuttered cottage: and wait. They takeme for a dun, peer out from a coign of vantage.--Its Stephen, sir.--Let him in. Let Stephen in.A bolt drawn back and Walter welcomes me.--We thought you were someone else.In his broad bed nuncle Richie, pillowed and blanketed, extends overthe hillock of his knees a sturdy forearm. Cleanchested. He has washed theupper moiety.--Morrow, nephew.He lays aside the lapboard whereon he drafts his bills of costs for theeyes of master Goff and master Shapland Tandy, filing consents andcommon searches and a writ of DUCES TECUM. A bogoak frame over his baldhead: Wildes REQUIESCAT. The drone of his misleading whistle bringsWalter back.--Yes, sir?--Malt for Richie and Stephen, tell mother. Where is she?--Bathing Crissie, sir.Papas little bedpal. Lump of love.--No, uncle Richie ...--Call me Richie. Damn your lithia water. It lowers. Whusky!--Uncle Richie, really ...--Sit down or by the law Harry Ill knock you down.Walter squints vainly for a chair.--He has nothing to sit down on, sir.--He has nowhere to put it, you mug. Bring in our chippendale chair.Would you like a bite of something? None of your damned lawdeedaw airshere. The rich of a rasher fried with a herring? Sure? So much the better.We have nothing in the house but backache pills.ALLERTA!He drones bars of Ferrandos ARIA DI SORTITA. The grandest number,Stephen, in the whole opera. Listen.His tuneful whistle sounds again, finely shaded, with rushes of the air,his fists bigdrumming on his padded knees.This wind is sweeter.Houses of decay, mine, his and all. You told the Clongowes gentryyou had an uncle a judge and an uncle a general in the army. Come out ofthem, Stephen. Beauty is not there. Nor in the stagnant bay of Marshslibrary where you read the fading prophecies of Joachim Abbas. Forwhom? The hundredheaded rabble of the cathedral close. A hater of hiskind ran from them to the wood of madness, his mane foaming in themoon, his eyeballs stars. Houyhnhnm, horsenostrilled. The oval equinefaces, Temple, Buck Mulligan, Foxy Campbell, Lanternjaws. Abbas father,--furious dean, what offence laid fire to their brains? Paff! DESCENDE,CALVE, UT NE AMPLIUS DECALVERIS. A garland of grey hair on his comminatedhead see him me clambering down to the footpace (DESCENDE!), clutching amonstrance, basiliskeyed. Get down, baldpoll! A choir gives back menaceand echo, assisting about the altars horns, the snorted Latin ofjackpriests moving burly in their albs, tonsured and oiled and gelded, fatwith the fat of kidneys of wheat.And at the same instant perhaps a priest round the corner is elevating it.Dringdring! And two streets off another locking it into a pyx.Dringadring! And in a ladychapel another taking housel all to his owncheek. Dringdring! Down, up, forward, back. Dan Occam thought of that,invincible doctor. A misty English morning the imp hypostasis tickled hisbrain. Bringing his host down and kneeling he heard twine with his secondbell the first bell in the transept (he is lifting his) and, rising, heard(now I am lifting) their two bells (he is kneeling) twang in diphthong.Cousin Stephen, you will never be a saint. Isle of saints. You wereawfully holy, werent you? You prayed to the Blessed Virgin that you mightnot have a red nose. You prayed to the devil in Serpentine avenue that thefubsy widow in front might lift her clothes still more from the wetstreet. O SI, CERTO! Sell your soul for that, do, dyed rags pinned round asquaw. More tell me, more still!! On the top of the Howth tram alonecrying to the rain: Naked women! NAKED WOMEN! What about that, eh?What about what? What else were they invented for?Reading two pages apiece of seven books every night, eh? I wasyoung. You bowed to yourself in the mirror, stepping forward to applauseearnestly, striking face. Hurray for the Goddamned idiot! Hray! No-onesaw: tell no-one. Books you were going to write with letters for titles.Have you read his F? O yes, but I prefer Q. Yes, but W is wonderful.O yes, W. Remember your epiphanies written on green oval leaves, deeplydeep, copies to be sent if you died to all the great libraries of theworld, including Alexandria? Someone was to read them there after a fewthousand years, a mahamanvantara. Pico della Mirandola like. Ay, very likea whale. When one reads these strange pages of one long gone one feelsthat one is at one with one who once ...The grainy sand had gone from under his feet. His boots trod again adamp crackling mast, razorshells, squeaking pebbles, that on theunnumbered pebbles beats, wood sieved by the shipworm, lost Armada.Unwholesome sandflats waited to suck his treading soles, breathing upwardsewage breath, a pocket of seaweed smouldered in seafire under a middenof mans ashes. He coasted them, walking warily. A porterbottle stood up,stogged to its waist, in the cakey sand dough. A sentinel: isle ofdreadful thirst. Broken hoops on the shore; at the land a maze of darkcunning nets; farther away chalkscrawled backdoors and on the higher beacha dryingline with two crucified shirts. Ringsend: wigwams of brownsteersmen and master mariners. Human shells.He halted. I have passed the way to aunt Saras. Am I not goingthere? Seems not. No-one about. He turned northeast and crossed thefirmer sand towards the Pigeonhouse.--QUI VOUS A MIS DANS CETTE FICHUE POSITION?--CEST LE PIGEON, JOSEPH.Patrice, home on furlough, lapped warm milk with me in the barMacMahon. Son of the wild goose, Kevin Egan of Paris. My fathers a bird,he lapped the sweet LAIT CHAUD with pink young tongue, plump bunnys face.Lap, LAPIN. He hopes to win in the GROS LOTS. About the nature of women heread in Michelet. But he must send me LA VIE DE JESUS by M. Leo Taxil.Lent it to his friend.--CEST TORDANT, VOUS SAVEZ. MOI, JE SUIS SOCIALISTE. JE NE CROIS PAS ENLEXISTENCE DE DIEU. FAUT PAS LE DIRE A MON P-RE.--IL CROIT?--MON PERE, OUI.SCHLUSS. He laps.My Latin quarter hat. God, we simply must dress the character. Iwant puce gloves. You were a student, werent you? Of what in the otherdevils name? Paysayenn. P. C. N., you know: PHYSIQUES, CHIMIQUES ETNATURELLES. Aha. Eating your groatsworth of MOU EN CIVET, fleshpots ofEgypt, elbowed by belching cabmen. Just say in the most natural tone:when I was in Paris; BOUL MICH, I used to. Yes, used to carry punchedtickets to prove an alibi if they arrested you for murder somewhere.Justice. On the night of the seventeenth of February  the prisoner wasseen by two witnesses. Other fellow did it: other me. Hat, tie, overcoat,nose. LUI, CEST MOI. You seem to have enjoyed yourself.Proudly walking. Whom were you trying to walk like? Forget: adispossessed. With mothers money order, eight shillings, the banging doorof the post office slammed in your face by the usher. Hunger toothache.ENCORE DEUX MINUTES. Look clock. Must get. FERME. Hired dog! Shoot himto bloody bits with a bang shotgun, bits man spattered walls all brassbuttons. Bits all khrrrrklak in place clack back. Not hurt? O, thats allright. Shake hands. See what I meant, see? O, thats all right. Shake ashake. O, thats all only all right.You were going to do wonders, what? Missionary to Europe afterfiery Columbanus. Fiacre and Scotus on their creepystools in heaven spiltfrom their pintpots, loudlatinlaughing: EUGE! EUGE! Pretending to speakbroken English as you dragged your valise, porter threepence, across theslimy pier at Newhaven. COMMENT? Rich booty you brought back; LE TUTU,five tattered numbers of PANTALON BLANC ET CULOTTE ROUGE; a blueFrench telegram, curiosity to show:--Mother dying come home father.The aunt thinks you killed your mother. Thats why she wont.    THEN HERES A HEALTH TO MULLIGANS AUNT    AND ILL TELL YOU THE REASON WHY.    SHE ALWAYS KEPT THINGS DECENT IN    THE HANNIGAN FAMILEYE.His feet marched in sudden proud rhythm over the sand furrows,along by the boulders of the south wall. He stared at them proudly, piledstone mammoth skulls. Gold light on sea, on sand, on boulders. The sun isthere, the slender trees, the lemon houses.Paris rawly waking, crude sunlight on her lemon streets. Moist pith offarls of bread, the froggreen wormwood, her matin incense, court the air.Belluomo rises from the bed of his wifes lovers wife, the kerchiefedhousewife is astir, a saucer of acetic acid in her hand. In Rodots Yvonneand Madeleine newmake their tumbled beauties, shattering with gold teethCHAUSSONS of pastry, their mouths yellowed with the PUS OF FLAN BRETON.Faces of Paris men go by, their wellpleased pleasers, curledconquistadores.Noon slumbers. Kevin Egan rolls gunpowder cigarettes throughfingers smeared with printers ink, sipping his green fairy as Patrice hiswhite. About us gobblers fork spiced beans down their gullets. UN DEMISETIER! A jet of coffee steam from the burnished caldron. She serves me athis beck. IL EST IRLANDAIS. HOLLANDAIS? NON FROMAGE. DEUX IRLANDAIS, NOUS,IRLANDE, VOUS SAVEZ AH, OUI! She thought you wanted a cheese HOLLANDAIS.Your postprandial, do you know that word? Postprandial. There was afellow I knew once in Barcelona, queer fellow, used to call it hispostprandial. Well: SLAINTE! Around the slabbed tables the tangle of winedbreaths and grumbling gorges. His breath hangs over our saucestainedplates, the green fairys fang thrusting between his lips. Of Ireland, theDalcassians, of hopes, conspiracies, of Arthur Griffith now, A E,pimander, good shepherd of men. To yoke me as his yokefellow, our crimesour common cause. Youre your fathers son. I know the voice. His fustianshirt, sanguineflowered, trembles its Spanish tassels at his secrets. M.Drumont, famous journalist, Drumont, know what he called queenVictoria? Old hag with the yellow teeth. VIEILLE OGRESSE with the DENTSJAUNES. Maud Gonne, beautiful woman, LA PATRIE, M. Millevoye, FelixFaure, know how he died? Licentious men. The froeken, BONNE A TOUT FAIRE,who rubs male nakedness in the bath at Upsala. MOI FAIRE, she said, TOUSLES MESSIEURS. Not this MONSIEUR, I said. Most licentious custom. Bath amost private thing. I wouldnt let my brother, not even my own brother,most lascivious thing. Green eyes, I see you. Fang, I feel. Lasciviouspeople.The blue fuse burns deadly between hands and burns clear. Loosetobaccoshreds catch fire: a flame and acrid smoke light our corner. Rawfacebones under his peep of day boys hat. How the head centre got away,authentic version. Got up as a young bride, man, veil, orangeblossoms,drove out the road to Malahide. Did, faith. Of lost leaders, the betrayed,wild escapes. Disguises, clutched at, gone, not here.Spurned lover. I was a strapping young gossoon at that time, I tellyou. Ill show you my likeness one day. I was, faith. Lover, for her lovehe prowled with colonel Richard Burke, tanist of his sept, under the wallsof Clerkenwell and, crouching, saw a flame of vengeance hurl them upwardin the fog. Shattered glass and toppling masonry. In gay Paree he hides,Egan of Paris, unsought by any save by me. Making his days stations, thedingy printingcase, his three taverns, the Montmartre lair he sleeps shortnight in, rue de la Goutte-dOr, damascened with flyblown faces of thegone. Loveless, landless, wifeless. She is quite nicey comfy without heroutcast man, madame in rue GIT-LE-COEUR, canary and two buck lodgers.Peachy cheeks, a zebra skirt, frisky as a young things. Spurned andundespairing. Tell Pat you saw me, wont you? I wanted to get poor Pat ajob one time. MON FILS, soldier of France. I taught him to sing THE BOYSOF KILKENNY ARE STOUT ROARING BLADES. Know that old lay? I taught Patricethat. Old Kilkenny: saint Canice, Strongbows castle on the Nore. Goeslike this. O, O. He takes me, Napper Tandy, by the hand.    O, O THE BOYS OF    KILKENNY ...Weak wasting hand on mine. They have forgotten Kevin Egan, not hethem. Remembering thee, O Sion.He had come nearer the edge of the sea and wet sand slapped hisboots. The new air greeted him, harping in wild nerves, wind of wild airof seeds of brightness. Here, I am not walking out to the Kish lightship,am I? He stood suddenly, his feet beginning to sink slowly in the quakingsoil. Turn back.Turning, he scanned the shore south, his feet sinking again slowly innew sockets. The cold domed room of the tower waits. Through thebarbacans the shafts of light are moving ever, slowly ever as my feet aresinking, creeping duskward over the dial floor. Blue dusk, nightfall, deepblue night. In the darkness of the dome they wait, their pushedbackchairs, my obelisk valise, around a board of abandoned platters. Who toclear it? He has the key. I will not sleep there when this night comes.A shut door of a silent tower, entombing their--blind bodies, thepanthersahib and his pointer. Call: no answer. He lifted his feet up fromthe suck and turned back by the mole of boulders. Take all, keep all. Mysoul walks with me, form of forms. So in the moons midwatches I pace thepath above the rocks, in sable silvered, hearing Elsinores temptingflood.The flood is following me. I can watch it flow past from here. Getback then by the Poolbeg road to the strand there. He climbed over thesedge and eely oarweeds and sat on a stool of rock, resting his ashplantin a grike.A bloated carcass of a dog lay lolled on bladderwrack. Before him thegunwale of a boat, sunk in sand. UN COCHE ENSABLE Louis Veuillot calledGautiers prose. These heavy sands are language tide and wind have siltedhere. And these, the stoneheaps of dead builders, a warren of weasel rats.Hide gold there. Try it. You have some. Sands and stones. Heavy of thepast. Sir Louts toys. Mind you dont get one bang on the ear. Im thebloody well gigant rolls all them bloody well boulders, bones for mysteppingstones. Feefawfum. I zmellz de bloodz odz an Iridzman.A point, live dog, grew into sight running across the sweep of sand.Lord, is he going to attack me? Respect his liberty. You will not bemaster of others or their slave. I have my stick. Sit tight. From fartheraway, walking shoreward across from the crested tide, figures, two. Thetwo maries. They have tucked it safe mong the bulrushes. Peekaboo. I seeyou. No, the dog. He is running back to them. Who?Galleys of the Lochlanns ran here to beach, in quest of prey, theirbloodbeaked prows riding low on a molten pewter surf. Dane vikings, torcsof tomahawks aglitter on their breasts when Malachi wore the collar ofgold. A school of turlehide whales stranded in hot noon, spouting,hobbling in the shallows. Then from the starving cagework city a horde ofjerkined dwarfs, my people, with flayers knives, running, scaling,hacking in green blubbery whalemeat. Famine, plague and slaughters. Theirblood is in me, their lusts my waves. I moved among them on the frozenLiffey, that I, a changeling, among the spluttering resin fires. I spoketo no-one: none to me.The dogs bark ran towards him, stopped, ran back. Dog of myenemy. I just simply stood pale, silent, bayed about. TERRIBILIA MEDITANS.A primrose doublet, fortunes knave, smiled on my fear. For that are youpining, the bark of their applause? Pretenders: live their lives. TheBruces brother, Thomas Fitzgerald, silken knight, Perkin Warbeck, Yorksfalse scion, in breeches of silk of whiterose ivory, wonder of a day, andLambert Simnel, with a tail of nans and sutlers, a scullion crowned. Allkings sons. Paradise of pretenders then and now. He saved men fromdrowning and you shake at a curs yelping. But the courtiers who mockedGuido in Or san Michele were in their own house. House of ... We dontwant any of your medieval abstrusiosities. Would you do what he did? Aboat would be near, a lifebuoy. NATURLICH, put there for you. Would you orwould you not? The man that was drowned nine days ago off Maidens rock.They are waiting for him now. The truth, spit it out. I would want to.I would try. I am not a strong swimmer. Water cold soft. When I put myface into it in the basin at Clongowes. Cant see! Whos behind me? Outquickly, quickly! Do you see the tide flowing quickly in on all sides,sheeting the lows of sand quickly, shellcocoacoloured? If I had land undermy feet. I want his life still to be his, mine to be mine. A drowning man.His human eyes scream to me out of horror of his death. I ... With himtogether down ... I could not save her. Waters: bitter death: lost.A woman and a man. I see her skirties. Pinned up, I bet.Their dog ambled about a bank of dwindling sand, trotting, sniffingon all sides. Looking for something lost in a past life. Suddenly he madeoff like a bounding hare, ears flung back, chasing the shadow of alowskimming gull. The mans shrieked whistle struck his limp ears. Heturned, bounded back, came nearer, trotted on twinkling shanks. On a fieldtenney a buck, trippant, proper, unattired. At the lacefringe of the tidehe halted with stiff forehoofs, seawardpointed ears. His snout liftedbarked at the wavenoise, herds of seamorse. They serpented towards hisfeet, curling, unfurling many crests, every ninth, breaking, plashing,from far, from farther out, waves and waves.Cocklepickers. They waded a little way in the water and, stooping,soused their bags and, lifting them again, waded out. The dog yelpedrunning to them, reared up and pawed them, dropping on all fours, againreared up at them with mute bearish fawning. Unheeded he kept by them asthey came towards the drier sand, a rag of wolfs tongue redpanting fromhis jaws. His speckled body ambled ahead of them and then loped off at acalfs gallop. The carcass lay on his path. He stopped, sniffed, stalkedround it, brother, nosing closer, went round it, sniffling rapidly like adog all over the dead dogs bedraggled fell. Dogskull, dogsniff, eyes onthe ground, moves to one great goal. Ah, poor dogsbody! Here lies poordogsbodys body.--Tatters! Out of that, you mongrel!The cry brought him skulking back to his master and a blunt bootlesskick sent him unscathed across a spit of sand, crouched in flight. Heslunk back in a curve. Doesnt see me. Along by the edge of the mole helolloped, dawdled, smelt a rock. and from under a cocked hindleg pissedagainst it. He trotted forward and, lifting again his hindleg, pissedquick short at an unsmelt rock. The simple pleasures of the poor. Hishindpaws then scattered the sand: then his forepaws dabbled and delved.Something he buried there, his grandmother. He rooted in the sand,dabbling, delving and stopped to listen to the air, scraped up the sandagain with a fury of his claws, soon ceasing, a pard, a panther, got inspousebreach, vulturing the dead.After he woke me last night same dream or was it? Wait. Openhallway. Street of harlots. Remember. Haroun al Raschid. I am almostingit. That man led me, spoke. I was not afraid. The melon he had he heldagainst my face. Smiled: creamfruit smell. That was the rule, said. In.Come. Red carpet spread. You will see who.Shouldering their bags they trudged, the red Egyptians. His bluedfeet out of turnedup trousers slapped the clammy sand, a dull brickmuffler strangling his unshaven neck. With woman steps she followed: theruffian and his strolling mort. Spoils slung at her back. Loose sand andshellgrit crusted her bare feet. About her windraw face hair trailed.Behind her lord, his helpmate, bing awast to Romeville. When night hidesher bodys flaws calling under her brown shawl from an archway where dogshave mired. Her fancyman is treating two Royal Dublins in OLoughlins ofBlackpitts. Buss her, wap in rogues rum lingo, for, O, my dimber wappingdell! A shefiends whiteness under her rancid rags. Fumballys lane thatnight: the tanyard smells.    WHITE THY FAMBLES, RED THY GAN    AND THY QUARRONS DAINTY IS.    COUCH A HOGSHEAD WITH ME THEN.    IN THE DARKMANS CLIP AND KISS.Morose delectation Aquinas tunbelly calls this, FRATE PORCOSPINO.Unfallen Adam rode and not rutted. Call away let him: THY QUARRONS DAINTYIS. Language no whit worse than his. Monkwords, marybeads jabber ontheir girdles: roguewords, tough nuggets patter in their pockets.Passing now.A side eye at my Hamlet hat. If I were suddenly naked here as I sit? Iam not. Across the sands of all the world, followed by the suns flamingsword, to the west, trekking to evening lands. She trudges, schlepps,trains, drags, trascines her load. A tide westering, moondrawn, in herwake. Tides, myriadislanded, within her, blood not mine, OINOPA PONTON,a winedark sea. Behold the handmaid of the moon. In sleep the wet signcalls her hour, bids her rise. Bridebed, childbed, bed of death,ghostcandled. OMNIS CARO AD TE VENIET. He comes, pale vampire, throughstorm his eyes, his bat sails bloodying the sea, mouth to her mouthskiss.Here. Put a pin in that chap, will you? My tablets. Mouth to her kiss.No. Must be two of em. Glue em well. Mouth to her mouths kiss.His lips lipped and mouthed fleshless lips of air: mouth to hermoomb. Oomb, allwombing tomb. His mouth moulded issuing breath,unspeeched: ooeeehah: roar of cataractic planets, globed, blazing, roaringwayawayawayawayaway. Paper. The banknotes, blast them. Old Deasysletter. Here. Thanking you for the hospitality tear the blank end off.Turning his back to the sun he bent over far to a table of rock andscribbled words. Thats twice I forgot to take slips from the librarycounter.His shadow lay over the rocks as he bent, ending. Why not endless tillthe farthest star? Darkly they are there behind this light, darknessshining in the brightness, delta of Cassiopeia, worlds. Me sits there withhis augurs rod of ash, in borrowed sandals, by day beside a livid sea,unbeheld, in violet night walking beneath a reign of uncouth stars.I throw this ended shadow from me, manshape ineluctable, call it back.Endless, would it be mine, form of my form? Who watches me here? Who everanywhere will read these written words? Signs on a white field. Somewhereto someone in your flutiest voice. The good bishop of Cloyne took the veilof the temple out of his shovel hat: veil of space with coloured emblemshatched on its field. Hold hard. Coloured on a flat: yes, thats right.Flat I see, then think distance, near, far, flat I see, east, back. Ah,see now! Falls back suddenly, frozen in stereoscope. Click does the trick.You find my words dark. Darkness is in our souls do you not think?Flutier. Our souls, shamewounded by our sins, cling to us yet more,a woman to her lover clinging, the more the more.She trusts me, her hand gentle, the longlashed eyes. Now where the bluehell am I bringing her beyond the veil? Into the ineluctable modalityof the ineluctable visuality. She, she, she. What she? The virginat Hodges Figgis window on Monday looking in for one of the alphabetbooks you were going to write. Keen glance you gave her. Wrist throughthe braided jesse of her sunshade. She lives in Leeson park witha grief and kickshaws, a lady of letters. Talk that to someone else,Stevie: a pickmeup. Bet she wears those curse of God stays suspendersand yellow stockings, darned with lumpy wool. Talk about apple dumplings,PIUTTOSTO. Where are your wits?Touch me. Soft eyes. Soft soft soft hand. I am lonely here. O, touchme soon, now. What is that word known to all men? I am quiet here alone.Sad too. Touch, touch me.He lay back at full stretch over the sharp rocks, cramming thescribbled note and pencil into a pock his hat. His hat down on his eyes.That is Kevin Egans movement I made, nodding for his nap, sabbath sleep.ET VIDIT DEUS. ET ERANT VALDE BONA. Alo! BONJOUR. Welcome as the flowersin May. Under its leaf he watched through peacocktwittering lashes thesouthing sun. I am caught in this burning scene. Pans hour, the faunalnoon. Among gumheavy serpentplants, milkoozing fruits, where on thetawny waters leaves lie wide. Pain is far.AND NO MORE TURN ASIDE AND BROOD.His gaze brooded on his broadtoed boots, a bucks castoffs,NEBENEINANDER. He counted the creases of rucked leather wherein anothersfoot had nested warm. The foot that beat the ground in tripudium, foot Idislove. But you were delighted when Esther Osvalts shoe went on you:girl I knew in Paris. TIENS, QUEL PETIT PIED! Staunch friend, a brothersoul: Wildes love that dare not speak its name. His arm: Cranlys arm. Henow will leave me. And the blame? As I am. As I am. All or not at all.In long lassoes from the Cock lake the water flowed full, coveringgreengoldenly lagoons of sand, rising, flowing. My ashplant will floataway. I shall wait. No, they will pass on, passing, chafing against thelow rocks, swirling, passing. Better get this job over quick. Listen: afourworded wavespeech: seesoo, hrss, rsseeiss, ooos. Vehement breath ofwaters amid seasnakes, rearing horses, rocks. In cups of rocks it slops:flop, slop, slap: bounded in barrels. And, spent, its speech ceases. Itflows purling, widely flowing, floating foampool, flower unfurling.Under the upswelling tide he saw the writhing weeds lift languidlyand sway reluctant arms, hising up their petticoats, in whispering waterswaying and upturning coy silver fronds. Day by day: night by night:lifted, flooded and let fall. Lord, they are weary; and, whispered to,they sigh. Saint Ambrose heard it, sigh of leaves and waves, waiting,awaiting the fullness of their times, DIEBUS AC NOCTIBUS INIURIAS PATIENSINGEMISCIT. To no end gathered; vainly then released, forthflowing,wending back: loom of the moon. Weary too in sight of lovers, lasciviousmen, a naked woman shining in her courts, she draws a toil of waters.Five fathoms out there. Full fathom five thy father lies. At one, hesaid. Found drowned. High water at Dublin bar. Driving before it a loosedrift of rubble, fanshoals of fishes, silly shells. A corpse risingsaltwhite from the undertow, bobbing a pace a pace a porpoise landward.There he is. Hook it quick. Pull. Sunk though he be beneath the wateryfloor. We have him. Easy now.Bag of corpsegas sopping in foul brine. A quiver of minnows, fat of aspongy titbit, flash through the slits of his buttoned trouserfly. Godbecomes man becomes fish becomes barnacle goose becomes featherbedmountain. Dead breaths I living breathe, tread dead dust, devour a urinousoffal from all dead. Hauled stark over the gunwale he breathes upward thestench of his green grave, his leprous nosehole snoring to the sun.A seachange this, brown eyes saltblue. Seadeath, mildest of all deathsknown to man. Old Father Ocean. PRIX DE PARIS: beware of imitations. Justyou give it a fair trial. We enjoyed ourselves immensely.Come. I thirst. Clouding over. No black clouds anywhere, are there?Thunderstorm. Allbright he falls, proud lightning of the intellect,LUCIFER, DICO, QUI NESCIT OCCASUM. No. My cockle hat and staff and hismysandal shoon. Where? To evening lands. Evening will find itself.He took the hilt of his ashplant, lunging with it softly, dallying still.Yes, evening will find itself in me, without me. All days make their end.By the way next when is it Tuesday will be the longest day. Of all theglad new year, mother, the rum tum tiddledy tum. Lawn Tennyson, gentlemanpoet. GIA. For the old hag with the yellow teeth. And Monsieur Drumont,gentleman journalist. Gia. My teeth are very bad. Why, I wonder. Feel.That one is going too. Shells. Ought I go to a dentist, I wonder, withthat money? That one. This. Toothless Kinch, the superman. Why is that, Iwonder, or does it mean something perhaps?My handkerchief. He threw it. I remember. Did I not take it up?His hand groped vainly in his pockets. No, I didnt. Better buy one.He laid the dry snot picked from his nostril on a ledge of rock,carefully. For the rest let look who will.Behind. Perhaps there is someone.He turned his face over a shoulder, rere regardant. Moving throughthe air high spars of a threemaster, her sails brailed up on thecrosstrees, homing, upstream, silently moving, a silent ship.+    -- II -- Mr Leopold Bloom ate with relish the inner organs of beasts andfowls. He liked thick giblet soup, nutty gizzards, a stuffed roast heart,liverslices fried with crustcrumbs, fried hencods roes. Most of all heliked grilled mutton kidneys which gave to his palate a fine tang offaintly scented urine.Kidneys were in his mind as he moved about the kitchen softly,righting her breakfast things on the humpy tray. Gelid light and airwere in the kitchen but out of doors gentle summer morning everywhere.Made him feel a bit peckish.The coals were reddening.Another slice of bread and butter: three, four: right. She didnt likeher plate full. Right. He turned from the tray, lifted the kettle off thehob and set it sideways on the fire. It sat there, dull and squat, itsspout stuck out. Cup of tea soon. Good. Mouth dry. The cat walked stifflyround a leg of the table with tail on high.--Mkgnao!--O, there you are, Mr Bloom said, turning from the fire.The cat mewed in answer and stalked again stiffly round a leg of thetable, mewing. Just how she stalks over my writingtable. Prr. Scratch myhead. Prr.Mr Bloom watched curiously, kindly the lithe black form. Clean tosee: the gloss of her sleek hide, the white button under the butt of hertail, the green flashing eyes. He bent down to her, his hands on hisknees.--Milk for the pussens, he said.--Mrkgnao! the cat cried.They call them stupid. They understand what we say better than weunderstand them. She understands all she wants to. Vindictive too. Cruel.Her nature. Curious mice never squeal. Seem to like it. Wonder what I looklike to her. Height of a tower? No, she can jump me.--Afraid of the chickens she is, he said mockingly. Afraid of thechookchooks. I never saw such a stupid pussens as the pussens.Cruel. Her nature. Curious mice never squeal. Seem to like it.--Mrkrgnao! the cat said loudly.She blinked up out of her avid shameclosing eyes, mewing plaintivelyand long, showing him her milkwhite teeth. He watched the dark eyeslitsnarrowing with greed till her eyes were green stones. Then he went to thedresser, took the jug Hanlons milkman had just filled for him, pouredwarmbubbled milk on a saucer and set it slowly on the floor.--Gurrhr! she cried, running to lap.He watched the bristles shining wirily in the weak light as she tippedthree times and licked lightly. Wonder is it true if you clip them theycant mouse after. Why? They shine in the dark, perhaps, the tips. Or kindof feelers in the dark, perhaps.He listened to her licking lap. Ham and eggs, no. No good eggs withthis drouth. Want pure fresh water. Thursday: not a good day either for amutton kidney at Buckleys. Fried with butter, a shake of pepper. Better apork kidney at Dlugaczs. While the kettle is boiling. She lapped slower,then licking the saucer clean. Why are their tongues so rough? To lapbetter, all porous holes. Nothing she can eat? He glanced round him. No.On quietly creaky boots he went up the staircase to the hall, pausedby the bedroom door. She might like something tasty. Thin bread andbutter she likes in the morning. Still perhaps: once in a way.He said softly in the bare hall:--Im going round the corner. Be back in a minute.And when he had heard his voice say it he added:--You dont want anything for breakfast?A sleepy soft grunt answered:--Mn.No. She didnt want anything. He heard then a warm heavy sigh,softer, as she turned over and the loose brass quoits of the bedsteadjingled. Must get those settled really. Pity. All the way from Gibraltar.Forgotten any little Spanish she knew. Wonder what her father gave for it.Old style. Ah yes! of course. Bought it at the governors auction. Got ashort knock. Hard as nails at a bargain, old Tweedy. Yes, sir. At Plevnathat was. I rose from the ranks, sir, and Im proud of it. Still he hadbrains enough to make that corner in stamps. Now that was farseeing.His hand took his hat from the peg over his initialled heavy overcoatand his lost property office secondhand waterproof. Stamps: stickybackpictures. Daresay lots of officers are in the swim too. Course they do.The sweated legend in the crown of his hat told him mutely: Plastos highgrade ha. He peeped quickly inside the leather headband. White slip ofpaper. Quite safe.On the doorstep he felt in his hip pocket for the latchkey. Not there.In the trousers I left off. Must get it. Potato I have. Creaky wardrobe.No use disturbing her. She turned over sleepily that time. He pulled thehalldoor to after him very quietly, more, till the footleaf dropped gentlyover the threshold, a limp lid. Looked shut. All right till I come backanyhow.He crossed to the bright side, avoiding the loose cellarflap of numberseventyfive. The sun was nearing the steeple of Georges church. Be a warmday I fancy. Specially in these black clothes feel it more. Blackconducts, reflects, (refracts is it?), the heat. But I couldnt go in thatlight suit. Make a picnic of it. His eyelids sank quietly often as hewalked in happy warmth. Bolands breadvan delivering with trays our dailybut she prefers yesterdays loaves turnovers crisp crowns hot. Makes youfeel young. Somewhere in the east: early morning: set off at dawn. Travelround in front of the sun, steal a days march on him. Keep it up for evernever grow a day older technically. Walk along a strand, strange land,come to a city gate, sentry there, old ranker too, old Tweedys bigmoustaches, leaning on a long kind of a spear. Wander through awnedstreets. Turbaned faces going by. Dark caves of carpet shops, big man,Turko the terrible, seated crosslegged, smoking a coiled pipe. Cries ofsellers in the streets. Drink water scented with fennel, sherbet. Danderalong all day. Might meet a robber or two. Well, meet him. Getting on tosundown. The shadows of the mosques among the pillars: priest with ascroll rolled up. A shiver of the trees, signal, the evening wind. I passon. Fading gold sky. A mother watches me from her doorway. She calls herchildren home in their dark language. High wall: beyond strings twanged.Night sky, moon, violet, colour of Mollys new garters. Strings. Listen.A girl playing one of those instruments what do you call them: dulcimers.I pass.Probably not a bit like it really. Kind of stuff you read: in the track ofthe sun. Sunburst on the titlepage. He smiled, pleasing himself. WhatArthur Griffith said about the headpiece over the FREEMAN leader: ahomerule sun rising up in the northwest from the laneway behind the bankof Ireland. He prolonged his pleased smile. Ikey touch that: homerule sunrising up in the north-west.He approached Larry ORourkes. From the cellar grating floated upthe flabby gush of porter. Through the open doorway the bar squirted outwhiffs of ginger, teadust, biscuitmush. Good house, however: just the endof the city traffic. For instance MAuleys down there: n. g. as position.Of course if they ran a tramline along the North Circular from thecattlemarket to the quays value would go up like a shot.Baldhead over the blind. Cute old codger. No use canvassing him foran ad. Still he knows his own business best. There he is, sure enough, mybold Larry, leaning against the sugarbin in his shirtsleeves watching theaproned curate swab up with mop and bucket. Simon Dedalus takes himoff to a tee with his eyes screwed up. Do you know what Im going to tellyou? Whats that, Mr ORourke? Do you know what? The Russians,theyd only be an eight oclock breakfast for the Japanese.Stop and say a word: about the funeral perhaps. Sad thing aboutpoor Dignam, Mr ORourke.Turning into Dorset street he said freshly in greeting through thedoorway:--Good day, Mr ORourke.--Good day to you.--Lovely weather, sir.--Tis all that.Where do they get the money? Coming up redheaded curates fromthe county Leitrim, rinsing empties and old man in the cellar. Then, loand behold, they blossom out as Adam Findlaters or Dan Tallons. Then thinof the competition. General thirst. Good puzzle would be cross Dublinwithout passing a pub. Save it they cant. Off the drunks perhaps. Putdown three and carry five. What is that, a bob here and there, dribs anddrabs. On the wholesale orders perhaps. Doing a double shuffle with thetown travellers. Square it you with the boss and well split the job, see?How much would that tot to off the porter in the month? Say tenbarrels of stuff. Say he got ten per cent off. O more. Fifteen. He passedSaint Josephs National school. Brats clamour. Windows open. Fresh airhelps memory. Or a lilt. Ahbeesee defeegee kelomen opeecue rustyouveedoubleyou. Boys are they? Yes. Inishturk. Inishark. Inishboffin. At theirjoggerfry. Mine. Slieve Bloom.He halted before Dlugaczs window, staring at the hanks of sausages,polonies, black and white. Fifteen multiplied by. The figures whitened inhis mind, unsolved: displeased, he let them fade. The shiny links, packedwith forcemeat, fed his gaze and he breathed in tranquilly the lukewarmbreath of cooked spicy pigs blood.A kidney oozed bloodgouts on the willowpatterned dish: the last. Hestood by the nextdoor girl at the counter. Would she buy it too, callingthe items from a slip in her hand? Chapped: washingsoda. And a pound and ahalf of Dennys sausages. His eyes rested on her vigorous hips. Woods hisname is. Wonder what he does. Wife is oldish. New blood. No followersallowed. Strong pair of arms. Whacking a carpet on the clothesline. Shedoes whack it, by George. The way her crooked skirt swings at each whack.The ferreteyed porkbutcher folded the sausages he had snipped offwith blotchy fingers, sausagepink. Sound meat there: like a stallfedheifer.He took a page up from the pile of cut sheets: the model farm atKinnereth on the lakeshore of Tiberias. Can become ideal wintersanatorium. Moses Montefiore. I thought he was. Farmhouse, wall round it,blurred cattle cropping. He held the page from him: interesting: read itnearer, the title, the blurred cropping cattle, the page rustling. A youngwhite heifer. Those mornings in the cattlemarket, the beasts lowing intheir pens, branded sheep, flop and fall of dung, the breeders inhobnailed boots trudging through the litter, slapping a palm on aripemeated hindquarter, theres a prime one, unpeeled switches in theirhands. He held the page aslant patiently, bending his senses and his will,his soft subject gaze at rest. The crooked skirt swinging, whack by whackby whack.The porkbutcher snapped two sheets from the pile, wrapped up herprime sausages and made a red grimace.--Now, my miss, he said.She tendered a coin, smiling boldly, holding her thick wrist out.--Thank you, my miss. And one shilling threepence change. For you,please?Mr Bloom pointed quickly. To catch up and walk behind her if shewent slowly, behind her moving hams. Pleasant to see first thing in themorning. Hurry up, damn it. Make hay while the sun shines. She stoodoutside the shop in sunlight and sauntered lazily to the right. He sigheddown his nose: they never understand. Sodachapped hands. Crustedtoenails too. Brown scapulars in tatters, defending her both ways. Thesting of disregard glowed to weak pleasure within his breast. For another:a constable off duty cuddling her in Eccles lane. They like them sizeable.Prime sausage. O please, Mr Policeman, Im lost in the wood.--Threepence, please.His hand accepted the moist tender gland and slid it into a sidepocket.Then it fetched up three coins from his trousers pocket and laid them onthe rubber prickles. They lay, were read quickly and quickly slid, disc bydisc, into the till.--Thank you, sir. Another time.A speck of eager fire from foxeyes thanked him. He withdrew hisgaze after an instant. No: better not: another time.--Good morning, he said, moving away.--Good morning, sir.No sign. Gone. What matter?He walked back along Dorset street, reading gravely. AgendathNetaim: planters company. To purchase waste sandy tracts from Turkishgovernment and plant with eucalyptus trees. Excellent for shade, fuel andconstruction. Orangegroves and immense melonfields north of Jaffa. Youpay eighty marks and they plant a dunam of land for you with olives,oranges, almonds or citrons. Olives cheaper: oranges need artificialirrigation. Every year you get a sending of the crop. Your name enteredfor life as owner in the book of the union. Can pay ten down and thebalance in yearly instalments. Bleibtreustrasse , Berlin, W. .Nothing doing. Still an idea behind it.He looked at the cattle, blurred in silver heat. Silverpowderedolivetrees. Quiet long days: pruning, ripening. Olives are packed in jars,eh? I have a few left from Andrews. Molly spitting them out. Knows thetaste of them now. Oranges in tissue paper packed in crates. Citrons too.Wonder is poor Citron still in Saint Kevins parade. And Mastiansky withthe old cither. Pleasant evenings we had then. Molly in Citronsbasketchair. Nice to hold, cool waxen fruit, hold in the hand, lift it tothe nostrils and smell the perfume. Like that, heavy, sweet, wild perfume.Always the same, year after year. They fetched high prices too, Moiseltold me. Arbutus place: Pleasants street: pleasant old times. Must bewithout a flaw, he said. Coming all that way: Spain, Gibraltar,Mediterranean, the Levant. Crates lined up on the quayside at Jaffa, chapticking them off in a book, navvies handling them barefoot in soileddungarees. Theres whatdoyoucallhim out of. How do you? Doesnt see. Chapyou know just to salute bit of a bore. His back is like that Norwegiancaptains. Wonder if Ill meet him today. Watering cart. To provoke therain. On earth as it is in heaven.A cloud began to cover the sun slowly, wholly. Grey. Far.No, not like that. A barren land, bare waste. Vulcanic lake, the deadsea: no fish, weedless, sunk deep in the earth. No wind could lift thosewaves, grey metal, poisonous foggy waters. Brimstone they called itraining down: the cities of the plain: Sodom, Gomorrah, Edom. All deadnames. A dead sea in a dead land, grey and old. Old now. It bore theoldest, the first race. A bent hag crossed from Cassidys, clutching anaggin bottle by the neck. The oldest people. Wandered far away over allthe earth, captivity to captivity, multiplying, dying, being borneverywhere. It lay there now. Now it could bear no more. Dead: an oldwomans: the grey sunken cunt of the world.Desolation.Grey horror seared his flesh. Folding the page into his pocket heturned into Eccles street, hurrying homeward. Cold oils slid along hisveins, chilling his blood: age crusting him with a salt cloak. Well, I amhere now. Yes, I am here now. Morning mouth bad images. Got up wrong sideof the bed. Must begin again those Sandows exercises. On the hands down.Blotchy brown brick houses. Number eighty still unlet. Why is that?Valuation is only twenty-eight. Towers, Battersby, North, MacArthur:parlour windows plastered with bills. Plasters on a sore eye. To smell thegentle smoke of tea, fume of the pan, sizzling butter. Be near her amplebedwarmed flesh. Yes, yes.Quick warm sunlight came running from Berkeley road, swiftly, inslim sandals, along the brightening footpath. Runs, she runs to meet me, agirl with gold hair on the wind.Two letters and a card lay on the hallfloor. He stooped and gatheredthem. Mrs Marion Bloom. His quickened heart slowed at once. Bold hand.Mrs Marion.--Poldy!Entering the bedroom he halfclosed his eyes and walked throughwarm yellow twilight towards her tousled head.--Who are the letters for?He looked at them. Mullingar. Milly.--A letter for me from Milly, he said carefully, and a card to you. And aletter for you.He laid her card and letter on the twill bedspread near the curve ofher knees.--Do you want the blind up?Letting the blind up by gentle tugs halfway his backward eye saw herglance at the letter and tuck it under her pillow.--That do? he asked, turning.She was reading the card, propped on her elbow.--She got the things, she said.He waited till she had laid the card aside and curled herself backslowly with a snug sigh.--Hurry up with that tea, she said. Im parched.--The kettle is boiling, he said.But he delayed to clear the chair: her striped petticoat, tossed soiledlinen: and lifted all in an armful on to the foot of the bed.As he went down the kitchen stairs she called:--Poldy!--What?--Scald the teapot.On the boil sure enough: a plume of steam from the spout. Hescalded and rinsed out the teapot and put in four full spoons of tea,tilting the kettle then to let the water flow in. Having set it to draw hetook off the kettle, crushed the pan flat on the live coals and watchedthe lump of butter slide and melt. While he unwrapped the kidney the catmewed hungrily against him. Give her too much meat she wont mouse. Saythey wont eat pork. Kosher. Here. He let the bloodsmeared paper fall toher and dropped the kidney amid the sizzling butter sauce. Pepper. Hesprinkled it through his fingers ringwise from the chipped eggcup.Then he slit open his letter, glancing down the page and over.Thanks: new tam: Mr Coghlan: lough Owel picnic: young student: BlazesBoylans seaside girls.The tea was drawn. He filled his own moustachecup, sham crownDerby, smiling. Silly Millys birthday gift. Only five she was then. No,wait: four. I gave her the amberoid necklace she broke. Putting pieces offolded brown paper in the letterbox for her. He smiled, pouring.    O, MILLY BLOOM, YOU ARE MY DARLING.    YOU ARE MY LOOKINGGLASS FROM NIGHT TO MORNING.    ID RATHER HAVE YOU WITHOUT A FARTHING    THAN KATEY KEOGH WITH HER ASS AND GARDEN.Poor old professor Goodwin. Dreadful old case. Still he was acourteous old chap. Oldfashioned way he used to bow Molly off theplatform. And the little mirror in his silk hat. The night Milly broughtit into the parlour. O, look what I found in professor Goodwins hat! Allwe laughed. Sex breaking out even then. Pert little piece she was.He prodded a fork into the kidney and slapped it over: then fitted theteapot on the tray. Its hump bumped as he took it up. Everything on it?Bread and butter, four, sugar, spoon, her cream. Yes. He carried itupstairs, his thumb hooked in the teapot handle.Nudging the door open with his knee he carried the tray in and set iton the chair by the bedhead.--What a time you were! she said.She set the brasses jingling as she raised herself briskly, an elbow onthe pillow. He looked calmly down on her bulk and between her large softbubs, sloping within her nightdress like a shegoats udder. The warmth ofher couched body rose on the air, mingling with the fragrance of the teashe poured.A strip of torn envelope peeped from under the dimpled pillow. In theact of going he stayed to straighten the bedspread.--Who was the letter from? he asked.Bold hand. Marion.--O, Boylan, she said. Hes bringing the programme.--What are you singing?--LA CI DAREM with J. C. Doyle, she said, and LOVES OLD SWEET SONG.Her full lips, drinking, smiled. Rather stale smell that incense leavesnext day. Like foul flowerwater.--Would you like the window open a little?She doubled a slice of bread into her mouth, asking:--What time is the funeral?--Eleven, I think, he answered. I didnt see the paper.Following the pointing of her finger he took up a leg of her soileddrawers from the bed. No? Then, a twisted grey garter looped round astocking: rumpled, shiny sole.--No: that book.Other stocking. Her petticoat.--It must have fell down, she said.He felt here and there. VOGLIO E NON VORREI. Wonder if she pronouncesthat right: VOGLIO. Not in the bed. Must have slid down. He stooped andlifted the valance. The book, fallen, sprawled against the bulge of theorangekeyed chamberpot.--Show here, she said. I put a mark in it. Theres a word I wanted to askyou.She swallowed a draught of tea from her cup held by nothandle and,having wiped her fingertips smartly on the blanket, began to search thetext with the hairpin till she reached the word.--Met him what? he asked.--Here, she said. What does that mean?He leaned downward and read near her polished thumbnail.--Metempsychosis?--Yes. Whos he when hes at home?--Metempsychosis, he said, frowning. Its Greek: from the Greek. Thatmeans the transmigration of souls.--O, rocks! she said. Tell us in plain words.He smiled, glancing askance at her mocking eyes. The same youngeyes. The first night after the charades. Dolphins Barn. He turned overthe smudged pages. RUBY: THE PRIDE OF THE RING. Hello. Illustration.Fierce Italian with carriagewhip. Must be Ruby pride of the on the floornaked. Sheet kindly lent. THE MONSTER MAFFEI DESISTED AND FLUNG HISVICTIM FROM HIM WITH AN OATH. Cruelty behind it all. Doped animals.Trapeze at Henglers. Had to look the other way. Mob gaping. Break yourneck and well break our sides. Families of them. Bone them young so theymetamspychosis. That we live after death. Our souls. That a mans soulafter he dies. Dignams soul ...--Did you finish it? he asked.--Yes, she said. Theres nothing smutty in it. Is she in love with thefirst fellow all the time?--Never read it. Do you want another?--Yes. Get another of Paul de Kocks. Nice name he has.She poured more tea into her cup, watching it flow sideways.Must get that Capel street library book renewed or theyll write toKearney, my guarantor. Reincarnation: thats the word.--Some people believe, he said, that we go on living in another bodyafter death, that we lived before. They call it reincarnation. That we alllived before on the earth thousands of years ago or some other planet.They say we have forgotten it. Some say they remember their past lives.The sluggish cream wound curdling spirals through her tea. Betteremind her of the word: metempsychosis. An example would be better. Anexample?The BATH OF THE NYMPH over the bed. Given away with the Easternumber of PHOTO BITS: Splendid masterpiece in art colours. Tea before youput milk in. Not unlike her with her hair down: slimmer. Three and six Igave for the frame. She said it would look nice over the bed. Nakednymphs: Greece: and for instance all the people that lived then.He turned the pages back.--Metempsychosis, he said, is what the ancient Greeks called it. Theyused to believe you could be changed into an animal or a tree, forinstance. What they called nymphs, for example.Her spoon ceased to stir up the sugar. She gazed straight before her,inhaling through her arched nostrils.--Theres a smell of burn, she said. Did you leave anything on the fire?--The kidney! he cried suddenly.He fitted the book roughly into his inner pocket and, stubbing his toesagainst the broken commode, hurried out towards the smell, steppinghastily down the stairs with a flurried storks legs. Pungent smoke shotup in an angry jet from a side of the pan. By prodding a prong of the forkunder the kidney he detached it and turned it turtle on its back. Only alittle burnt. He tossed it off the pan on to a plate and let the scantybrown gravy trickle over it.Cup of tea now. He sat down, cut and buttered a slice of the loaf. Heshore away the burnt flesh and flung it to the cat. Then he put a forkfulinto his mouth, chewing with discernment the toothsome pliant meat. Doneto a turn. A mouthful of tea. Then he cut away dies of bread, sopped onein the gravy and put it in his mouth. What was that about some youngstudent and a picnic? He creased out the letter at his side, reading itslowly as he chewed, sopping another die of bread in the gravy and raisingit to his mouth.    Dearest PapliThanks ever so much for the lovely birthday present. It suits mesplendid. Everyone says I am quite the belle in my new tam. I got mummysIovely box of creams and am writing. They are lovely. I am getting onswimming in the photo business now. Mr Coghlan took one of me and Mrs.Will send when developed. We did great biz yesterday. Fair day and all thebeef to the heels were in. We are going to lough Owel on Monday with afew friends to make a scrap picnic. Give my love to mummy and to yourselfa big kiss and thanks. I hear them at the piano downstairs. There is to bea concert in the Greville Arms on Saturday. There is a young student comeshere some evenings named Bannon his cousins or something are big swellsand he sings Boylans (I was on the pop of writing Blazes Boylans) songabout those seaside girls. Tell him silly Milly sends my best respects. Imust now close with fondest loveYour fond daughter,     MILLY.P. S. Excuse bad writing am in hurry. Byby.     M.Fifteen yesterday. Curious, fifteenth of the month too. Her firstbirthday away from home. Separation. Remember the summer morning shewas born, running to knock up Mrs Thornton in Denzille street. Jolly oldwoman. Lot of babies she must have helped into the world. She knew fromthe first poor little Rudy wouldnt live. Well, God is good, sir. She knewat once. He would be eleven now if he had lived.His vacant face stared pityingly at the postscript. Excuse bad writing.Hurry. Piano downstairs. Coming out of her shell. Row with her in the XLCafe about the bracelet. Wouldnt eat her cakes or speak or look.Saucebox. He sopped other dies of bread in the gravy and ate piece afterpiece of kidney. Twelve and six a week. Not much. Still, she might doworse. Music hall stage. Young student. He drank a draught of cooler teato wash down his meal. Then he read the letter again: twice.O, well: she knows how to mind herself. But if not? No, nothing hashappened. Of course it might. Wait in any case till it does. A wild pieceof goods. Her slim legs running up the staircase. Destiny. Ripening now.Vain: very.He smiled with troubled affection at the kitchen window. Day Icaught her in the street pinching her cheeks to make them red. Anemic alittle. Was given milk too long. On the ERINS KING that day round theKish. Damned old tub pitching about. Not a bit funky. Her pale blue scarfloose in the wind with her hair.    ALL DIMPLED CHEEKS AND CURLS,    YOUR HEAD IT SIMPLY SWIRLS.Seaside girls. Torn envelope. Hands stuck in his trousers pockets, jarveyoff for the day, singing. Friend of the family. Swurls, he says. Pier withlamps, summer evening, band,    THOSE GIRLS, THOSE GIRLS,    THOSE LOVELY SEASIDE GIRLS.Milly too. Young kisses: the first. Far away now past. Mrs Marion.Reading, lying back now, counting the strands of her hair, smiling,braiding.A soft qualm, regret, flowed down his backbone, increasing. Willhappen, yes. Prevent. Useless: cant move. Girls sweet light lips. Willhappen too. He felt the flowing qualm spread over him. Useless to movenow. Lips kissed, kissing, kissed. Full gluey womans lips.Better where she is down there: away. Occupy her. Wanted a dog topass the time. Might take a trip down there. August bank holiday, only twoand six return. Six weeks off, however. Might work a press pass. Orthrough MCoy.The cat, having cleaned all her fur, returned to the meatstained paper,nosed at it and stalked to the door. She looked back at him, mewing. Wantsto go out. Wait before a door sometime it will open. Let her wait. Has thefidgets. Electric. Thunder in the air. Was washing at her ear with herback to the fire too.He felt heavy, full: then a gentle loosening of his bowels. He stood up,undoing the waistband of his trousers. The cat mewed to him.--Miaow! he said in answer. Wait till Im ready.Heaviness: hot day coming. Too much trouble to fag up the stairs tothe landing.A paper. He liked to read at stool. Hope no ape comes knocking justas Im.In the tabledrawer he found an old number of TITBITS. He folded itunder his armpit, went to the door and opened it. The cat went up in softbounds. Ah, wanted to go upstairs, curl up in a ball on the bed.Listening, he heard her voice:--Come, come, pussy. Come.He went out through the backdoor into the garden: stood to listentowards the next garden. No sound. Perhaps hanging clothes out to dry.The maid was in the garden. Fine morning.He bent down to regard a lean file of spearmint growing by the wall.Make a summerhouse here. Scarlet runners. Virginia creepers. Want tomanure the whole place over, scabby soil. A coat of liver of sulphur. Allsoil like that without dung. Household slops. Loam, what is this that is?The hens in the next garden: their droppings are very good top dressing.Best of all though are the cattle, especially when they are fed on thoseoilcakes. Mulch of dung. Best thing to clean ladies kid gloves.Dirty cleans. Ashes too. Reclaim the whole place. Grow peas in that cornerthere. Lettuce. Always have fresh greens then. Still gardens have theirdrawbacks. That bee or bluebottle here Whitmonday.He walked on. Where is my hat, by the way? Must have put it backon the peg. Or hanging up on the floor. Funny I dont remember that.Hallstand too full. Four umbrellas, her raincloak. Picking up the letters.Dragos shopbell ringing. Queer I was just thinking that moment. Brownbrillantined hair over his collar. Just had a wash and brushup. Wonderhave I time for a bath this morning. Tara street. Chap in the paybox theregot away James Stephens, they say. OBrien.Deep voice that fellow Dlugacz has. Agendath what is it? Now, mymiss. Enthusiast.He kicked open the crazy door of the jakes. Better be careful not to getthese trousers dirty for the funeral. He went in, bowing his head underthe low lintel. Leaving the door ajar, amid the stench of mouldy limewashand stale cobwebs he undid his braces. Before sitting down he peeredthrough a chink up at the nextdoor windows. The king was in hiscountinghouse. Nobody.Asquat on the cuckstool he folded out his paper, turning its pagesover on his bared knees. Something new and easy. No great hurry. Keep ita bit. Our prize titbit: MATEHAMS MASTERSTROKE. Written by Mr PhilipBeaufoy, Playgoers Club, London. Payment at the rate of one guinea acolumn has been made to the writer. Three and a half. Three pounds three.Three pounds, thirteen and six.Quietly he read, restraining himself, the first column and, yielding butresisting, began the second. Midway, his last resistance yielding, heallowed his bowels to ease themselves quietly as he read, reading stillpatiently that slight constipation of yesterday quite gone. Hope its nottoo big bring on piles again. No, just right. So. Ah! Costive. One tabloidof cascara sagrada. Life might be so. It did not move or touch him but itwas something quick and neat. Print anything now. Silly season. He readon, seated calm above his own rising smell. Neat certainly. MATCHAM OFTENTHINKS OF THE MASTERSTROKE BY WHICH HE WON THE LAUGHING WITCH WHO NOW.Begins and ends morally. HAND IN HAND. Smart. He glanced back through whathe had read and, while feeling his water flow quietly, he envied kindlyMr Beaufoy who had written it and received payment of three pounds,thirteen and six.Might manage a sketch. By Mr and Mrs L. M. Bloom. Invent a storyfor some proverb. Which? Time I used to try jotting down on my cuff whatshe said dressing. Dislike dressing together. Nicked myself shaving.Biting her nether lip, hooking the placket of her skirt. Timing her. .l.Did Roberts pay you yet? .. What had Gretta Conroy on? .. Whatpossessed me to buy this comb? .. Im swelled after that cabbage. Aspeck of dust on the patent leather of her boot.Rubbing smartly in turn each welt against her stockinged calf. Morningafter the bazaar dance when Mays band played Ponchiellis dance ofthe hours. Explain that: morning hours, noon, then evening coming on,then night hours. Washing her teeth. That was the first night. Her headdancing. Her fansticks clicking. Is that Boylan well off? He has money.Why? I noticed he had a good rich smell off his breath dancing. No usehumming then. Allude to it. Strange kind of music that last night.The mirror was in shadow. She rubbed her handglass briskly on herwoollen vest against her full wagging bub. Peering into it. Lines inher eyes. It wouldnt pan out somehow.Evening hours, girls in grey gauze. Night hours then: black withdaggers and eyemasks. Poetical idea: pink, then golden, then grey, thenblack. Still, true to life also. Day: then the night.He tore away half the prize story sharply and wiped himself with it.Then he girded up his trousers, braced and buttoned himself. He pulledback the jerky shaky door of the jakes and came forth from the gloom intothe air.In the bright light, lightened and cooled in limb, he eyed carefully hisblack trousers: the ends, the knees, the houghs of the knees. What time isthe funeral? Better find out in the paper.A creak and a dark whirr in the air high up. The bells of Georgeschurch. They tolled the hour: loud dark iron.    HEIGHO! HEIGHO!    HEIGHO! HEIGHO!    HEIGHO! HEIGHO!Quarter to. There again: the overtone following through the air, third.Poor Dignam!    * * * * * * *By lorries along sir John Rogersons quay Mr Bloom walked soberly,past Windmill lane, Leasks the linseed crusher, the postal telegraphoffice. Could have given that address too. And past the sailors home.He turned from the morning noises of the quayside and walked through Limestreet. By Bradys cottages a boy for the skins lolled, his bucket ofoffal linked, smoking a chewed fagbutt. A smaller girl with scars ofeczema on her forehead eyed him, listlessly holding her battered caskhoop.Tell him if he smokes he wont grow. O let him! His life isnt such a bedof roses. Waiting outside pubs to bring da home. Come home to ma, da.Slack hour: wont be many there. He crossed Townsend street, passed thefrowning face of Bethel. El, yes: house of: Aleph, Beth. And past Nicholsthe undertaker. At eleven it is. Time enough. Daresay Corny Kelleherbagged the job for ONeills. Singing with his eyes shut. Corny. Met heronce in the park. In the dark. What a lark. Police tout. Her name andaddress she then told with my tooraloom tooraloom tay. O, surely he baggedit. Bury him cheap in a whatyoumaycall. With my tooraloom, tooraloom,tooraloom, tooraloom.In Westland row he halted before the window of the Belfast andOriental Tea Company and read the legends of leadpapered packets: choiceblend, finest quality, family tea. Rather warm. Tea. Must get some fromTom Kernan. Couldnt ask him at a funeral, though. While his eyes stillread blandly he took off his hat quietly inhaling his hairoil and sent hisright hand with slow grace over his brow and hair. Very warm morning.Under their dropped lids his eyes found the tiny bow of the leatherheadband inside his high grade ha. Just there. His right hand came downinto the bowl of his hat. His fingers found quickly a card behind theheadband and transferred it to his waistcoat pocket.So warm. His right hand once more more slowly went over his browand hair. Then he put on his hat again, relieved: and read again: choiceblend, made of the finest Ceylon brands. The far east. Lovely spot it mustbe: the garden of the world, big lazy leaves to float about on, cactuses,flowery meads, snaky lianas they call them. Wonder is it like that. ThoseCinghalese lobbing about in the sun IN DOLCE FAR NIENTE, not doing ahands turn all day. Sleep six months out of twelve. Too hot to quarrel.Influence of the climate. Lethargy. Flowers of idleness. The air feedsmost. Azotes. Hothouse in Botanic gardens. Sensitive plants. Waterlilies.Petals too tired to. Sleeping sickness in the air. Walk on roseleaves.Imagine trying to eat tripe and cowheel. Where was the chap I saw in thatpicture somewhere? Ah yes, in the dead sea floating on his back, reading abook with a parasol open. Couldnt sink if you tried: so thick with salt.Because the weight of the water, no, the weight of the body in the wateris equal to the weight of the what? Or is it the volume is equal to theweight? Its a law something like that. Vance in High school cracking hisfingerjoints, teaching. The college curriculum. Cracking curriculum. Whatis weight really when you say the weight? Thirtytwo feet per second persecond. Law of falling bodies: per second per second. They all fall to theground. The earth. Its the force of gravity of the earth is the weight.He turned away and sauntered across the road. How did she walkwith her sausages? Like that something. As he walked he took the foldedFREEMAN from his sidepocket, unfolded it, rolled it lengthwise in a batonand tapped it at each sauntering step against his trouserleg. Carelessair: just drop in to see. Per second per second. Per second for everysecond it means. From the curbstone he darted a keen glance through thedoor of the postoffice. Too late box. Post here. No-one. In.He handed the card through the brass grill.--Are there any letters for me? he asked.While the postmistress searched a pigeonhole he gazed at therecruiting poster with soldiers of all arms on parade: and held the tip ofhis baton against his nostrils, smelling freshprinted rag paper. No answerprobably. Went too far last time.The postmistress handed him back through the grill his card with aletter. He thanked her and glanced rapidly at the typed envelope.Henry Flower Esq,c/o P. O. Westland Row,City.Answered anyhow. He slipped card and letter into his sidepocket,reviewing again the soldiers on parade. Wheres old Tweedys regiment?Castoff soldier. There: bearskin cap and hackle plume. No, hes agrenadier. Pointed cuffs. There he is: royal Dublin fusiliers. Redcoats.Too showy. That must be why the women go after them. Uniform. Easier toenlist and drill. Maud Gonnes letter about taking them off OConnellstreet at night: disgrace to our Irish capital. Griffiths paper is on thesame tack now: an army rotten with venereal disease: overseas orhalfseasover empire. Half baked they look: hypnotised like. Eyes front.Mark time. Table: able. Bed: ed. The Kings own. Never see him dressed upas a fireman or a bobby. A mason, yes.He strolled out of the postoffice and turned to the right. Talk: as ifthat would mend matters. His hand went into his pocket and a forefingerfelt its way under the flap of the envelope, ripping it open in jerks.Women will pay a lot of heed, I dont think. His fingers drew forth theletter the letter and crumpled the envelope in his pocket. Somethingpinned on: photo perhaps. Hair? No.MCoy. Get rid of him quickly. Take me out of my way. Hate companywhen you.--Hello, Bloom. Where are you off to?--Hello, MCoy. Nowhere in particular.--Hows the body?--Fine. How are you?--Just keeping alive, MCoy said.His eyes on the black tie and clothes he asked with low respect:--Is there any ... no trouble I hope? I see youre ...--O, no, Mr Bloom said. Poor Dignam, you know. The funeral is today.--To be sure, poor fellow. So it is. What time?A photo it isnt. A badge maybe.--E ... eleven, Mr Bloom answered.--I must try to get out there, MCoy said. Eleven, is it? I only heard itlast night. Who was telling me? Holohan. You know Hoppy?--I know.Mr Bloom gazed across the road at the outsider drawn up before thedoor of the Grosvenor. The porter hoisted the valise up on the well. Shestood still, waiting, while the man, husband, brother, like her, searchedhis pockets for change. Stylish kind of coat with that roll collar, warmfor a day like this, looks like blanketcloth. Careless stand of her withher hands in those patch pockets. Like that haughty creature at the polomatch. Women all for caste till you touch the spot. Handsome is andhandsome does. Reserved about to yield. The honourable Mrs and Brutus isan honourable man. Possess her once take the starch out of her.--I was with Bob Doran, hes on one of his periodical bends, and what doyou call him Bantam Lyons. Just down there in Conways we were.Doran Lyons in Conways. She raised a gloved hand to her hair. Incame Hoppy. Having a wet. Drawing back his head and gazing far frombeneath his vailed eyelids he saw the bright fawn skin shine in the glare,the braided drums. Clearly I can see today. Moisture about gives longsight perhaps. Talking of one thing or another. Ladys hand. Which sidewill she get up?--And he said: SAD THING ABOUT OUR POOR FRIEND PADDY! WHAT PADDY? I said.Poor little Paddy Dignam, he said.Off to the country: Broadstone probably. High brown boots withlaces dangling. Wellturned foot. What is he foostering over that changefor? Sees me looking. Eye out for other fellow always. Good fallback. Twostrings to her bow.--WHY? I said. WHATS WRONG WITH HIM? I said.Proud: rich: silk stockings.--Yes, Mr Bloom said.He moved a little to the side of MCoys talking head. Getting up in aminute.--WHATS WRONG WITH HIM? He said. HES DEAD, he said. And, faith, hefilled up. IS IT PADDY DIGNAM? I said. I couldnt believe it when I heardit. I was with him no later than Friday last or Thursday was it in theArch. YES, he said. Hes gone. HE DIED ON MONDAY, POOR FELLOW. Watch!Watch! Silk flash rich stockings white. Watch!A heavy tramcar honking its gong slewed between.Lost it. Curse your noisy pugnose. Feels locked out of it. Paradise andthe peri. Always happening like that. The very moment. Girl in Eustacestreet hallway Monday was it settling her garter. Her friend covering thedisplay of. ESPRIT DE CORPS. Well, what are you gaping at?--Yes, yes, Mr Bloom said after a dull sigh. Another gone.--One of the best, MCoy said.The tram passed. They drove off towards the Loop Line bridge, herrich gloved hand on the steel grip. Flicker, flicker: the laceflare of herhat in the sun: flicker, flick.--Wife well, I suppose? MCoys changed voice said.--O, yes, Mr Bloom said. Tiptop, thanks.He unrolled the newspaper baton idly and read idly:    WHAT IS HOME WITHOUT    PLUMTREES POTTED MEAT?    INCOMPLETE    WITH IT AN ABODE OF BLISS.--My missus has just got an engagement. At least its not settled yet.Valise tack again. By the way no harm. Im off that, thanks.Mr Bloom turned his largelidded eyes with unhasty friendliness.--My wife too, he said. Shes going to sing at a swagger affair in theUlster Hall, Belfast, on the twenty-fifth.--That so? MCoy said. Glad to hear that, old man. Whos getting it up?Mrs Marion Bloom. Not up yet. Queen was in her bedroom eatingbread and. No book. Blackened court cards laid along her thigh by sevens.Dark lady and fair man. Letter. Cat furry black ball. Torn strip ofenvelope.    LOVES    OLD    SWEET    SONG    COMES LO-OVES OLD ...--Its a kind of a tour, dont you see, Mr Bloom said thoughtfully.SWEEEET SONG.  Theres a committee formed. Part shares and part profits.MCoy nodded, picking at his moustache stubble.--O, well, he said. Thats good news.He moved to go.--Well, glad to see you looking fit, he said. Meet you knocking around.--Yes, Mr Bloom said.--Tell you what, MCoy said. You might put down my name at the funeral,will you? Id like to go but I mightnt be able, you see. Theres adrowning case at Sandycove may turn up and then the coroner and myselfwould have to go down if the body is found. You just shove in my name ifIm not there, will you?--Ill do that, Mr Bloom said, moving to get off. Thatll be all right.--Right, MCoy said brightly. Thanks, old man. Id go if I possiblycould. Well, tolloll. Just C. P. MCoy will do.--That will be done, Mr Bloom answered firmly.Didnt catch me napping that wheeze. The quick touch. Soft mark.Id like my job. Valise I have a particular fancy for. Leather. Cappedcorners, rivetted edges, double action lever lock. Bob Cowley lent him hisfor the Wicklow regatta concert last year and never heard tidings of itfrom that good day to this.Mr Bloom, strolling towards Brunswick street, smiled. My missus hasjust got an. Reedy freckled soprano. Cheeseparing nose. Nice enough in itsway: for a little ballad. No guts in it. You and me, dont you know: inthe same boat. Softsoaping. Give you the needle that would. Cant he hearthe difference? Think hes that way inclined a bit. Against my grainsomehow. Thought that Belfast would fetch him. I hope that smallpox upthere doesnt get worse. Suppose she wouldnt let herself be vaccinatedagain. Your wife and my wife.Wonder is he pimping after me?Mr Bloom stood at the corner, his eyes wandering over themulticoloured hoardings. Cantrell and Cochranes Ginger Ale (Aromatic).Clerys Summer Sale. No, hes going on straight. Hello. LEAH tonight. MrsBandmann Palmer. Like to see her again in that. HAMLET she played lastnight. Male impersonator. Perhaps he was a woman. Why Opheliacommitted suicide. Poor papa! How he used to talk of Kate Bateman inthat. Outside the Adelphi in London waited all the afternoon to get in.Year before I was born that was: sixtyfive. And Ristori in Vienna. What isthis the right name is? By Mosenthal it is. Rachel, is it? No. The scenehe was always talking about where the old blind Abraham recognises thevoice and puts his fingers on his face.Nathans voice! His sons voice! I hear the voice of Nathan who lefthis father to die of grief and misery in my arms, who left the house ofhis father and left the God of his father.Every word is so deep, Leopold.Poor papa! Poor man! Im glad I didnt go into the room to look athis face. That day! O, dear! O, dear! Ffoo! Well, perhaps it was best forhim.Mr Bloom went round the corner and passed the drooping nags of thehazard. No use thinking of it any more. Nosebag time. Wish I hadnt metthat MCoy fellow.He came nearer and heard a crunching of gilded oats, the gentlychamping teeth. Their full buck eyes regarded him as he went by, amid thesweet oaten reek of horsepiss. Their Eldorado. Poor jugginses! Damn allthey know or care about anything with their long noses stuck in nosebags.Too full for words. Still they get their feed all right and their doss.Gelded too: a stump of black guttapercha wagging limp between theirhaunches. Might be happy all the same that way. Good poor brutes theylook. Still their neigh can be very irritating.He drew the letter from his pocket and folded it into the newspaper hecarried. Might just walk into her here. The lane is safer.He passed the cabmans shelter. Curious the life of drifting cabbies.All weathers, all places, time or setdown, no will of their own.VOGLIO E NON. Like to give them an odd cigarette. Sociable. Shout a fewflying syllables as they pass. He hummed:    LA CI DAREM LA MANO    LA LA LALA LA LA.He turned into Cumberland street and, going on some paces, haltedin the lee of the station wall. No-one. Meades timberyard. Piled balks.Ruins and tenements. With careful tread he passed over a hopscotch courtwith its forgotten pickeystone. Not a sinner. Near the timberyard asquatted child at marbles, alone, shooting the taw with a cunnythumb. Awise tabby, a blinking sphinx, watched from her warm sill. Pity to disturbthem. Mohammed cut a piece out of his mantle not to wake her. Open it.And once I played marbles when I went to that old dames school. She likedmignonette. Mrs Elliss. And Mr? He opened the letter within thenewspaper.A flower. I think its a. A yellow flower with flattened petals. Notannoyed then? What does she say?    Dear HenryI got your last letter to me and thank you very much for it. I am sorryyou did not like my last letter. Why did you enclose the stamps? I amawfully angry with you. I do wish I could punish you for that. I calledyou naughty boy because I do not like that other world. Please tell mewhat is the real meaning of that word? Are you not happy in your home youpoor little naughty boy? I do wish I could do something for you. Pleasetell me what you think of poor me. I often think of the beautiful name youhave. Dear Henry, when will we meet? I think of you so often you have noidea. I have never felt myself so much drawn to a man as you. I feel sobad about. Please write me a long letter and tell me more. Remember if youdo not I will punish you. So now you know what I will do to you, younaughty boy, if you do not wrote. O how I long to meet you. Henry dear, donot deny my request before my patience are exhausted. Then I will tell youall. Goodbye now, naughty darling, I have such a bad headache. today. andwrite BY RETURN to your longing    MarthaP. S. Do tell me what kind of perfume does your wife use. I want to know.He tore the flower gravely from its pinhold smelt its almost no smelland placed it in his heart pocket. Language of flowers. They like itbecause no-one can hear. Or a poison bouquet to strike him down. Thenwalking slowly forward he read the letter again, murmuring here and therea word. Angry tulips with you darling manflower punish your cactus if youdont please poor forgetmenot how I long violets to dear roses when wesoon anemone meet all naughty nightstalk wife Marthas perfume. Havingread it all he took it from the newspaper and put it back in hissidepocket.Weak joy opened his lips. Changed since the first letter. Wonderdid she wrote it herself. Doing the indignant: a girl of goodfamily like me, respectable character. Could meet one Sunday after therosary. Thank you: not having any. Usual love scrimmage. Then runninground corners. Bad as a row with Molly. Cigar has a cooling effect.Narcotic. Go further next time. Naughty boy: punish: afraid of words, ofcourse. Brutal, why not? Try it anyhow. A bit at a time.Fingering still the letter in his pocket he drew the pin out of it.Common pin, eh? He threw it on the road. Out of her clothes somewhere:pinned together. Queer the number of pins they always have. No roseswithout thorns.Flat Dublin voices bawled in his head. Those two sluts that night inthe Coombe, linked together in the rain.    O, MAIRY LOST THE PIN OF HER DRAWERS.    SHE DIDNT KNOW WHAT TO DO    TO KEEP IT UP    TO KEEP IT UP.It? Them. Such a bad headache. Has her roses probably. Or sitting all daytyping. Eyefocus bad for stomach nerves. What perfume does your wifeuse. Now could you make out a thing like that?    TO KEEP IT UP.Martha, Mary. I saw that picture somewhere I forget now old master orfaked for money. He is sitting in their house, talking. Mysterious. Alsothe two sluts in the Coombe would listen.    TO KEEP IT UP.Nice kind of evening feeling. No more wandering about. Just loll there:quiet dusk: let everything rip. Forget. Tell about places you have been,strange customs. The other one, jar on her head, was getting the supper:fruit, olives, lovely cool water out of a well, stonecold like the hole inthe wall at Ashtown. Must carry a paper goblet next time I go to thetrottingmatches. She listens with big dark soft eyes. Tell her: more andmore: all. Then a sigh: silence. Long long long rest.Going under the railway arch he took out the envelope, tore it swiftlyin shreds and scattered them towards the road. The shreds fluttered away,sank in the dank air: a white flutter, then all sank.Henry Flower. You could tear up a cheque for a hundred pounds inthe same way. Simple bit of paper. Lord Iveagh once cashed a sevenfigurecheque for a million in the bank of Ireland. Shows you the money to bemade out of porter. Still the other brother lord Ardilaun has to changehis shirt four times a day, they say. Skin breeds lice or vermin. Amillion pounds, wait a moment. Twopence a pint, fourpence a quart,eightpence a gallon of porter, no, one and fourpence a gallon of porter.One and four into twenty: fifteen about. Yes, exactly. Fifteen millions ofbarrels of porter.What am I saying barrels? Gallons. About a million barrels all the same.An incoming train clanked heavily above his head, coach after coach.Barrels bumped in his head: dull porter slopped and churned inside. Thebungholes sprang open and a huge dull flood leaked out, flowing together,winding through mudflats all over the level land, a lazy pooling swirl ofliquor bearing along wideleaved flowers of its froth.He had reached the open backdoor of All Hallows. Stepping into theporch he doffed his hat, took the card from his pocket and tucked it againbehind the leather headband. Damn it. I might have tried to work MCoyfor a pass to Mullingar.Same notice on the door. Sermon by the very reverend John ConmeeS.J. on saint Peter Claver S.J. and the African Mission. Prayers for theconversion of Gladstone they had too when he was almost unconscious.The protestants are the same. Convert Dr William J. Walsh D.D. to thetrue religion. Save Chinas millions. Wonder how they explain it to theheathen Chinee. Prefer an ounce of opium. Celestials. Rank heresy forthem. Buddha their god lying on his side in the museum. Taking it easywith hand under his cheek. Josssticks burning. Not like Ecce Homo. Crownof thorns and cross. Clever idea Saint Patrick the shamrock. Chopsticks?Conmee: Martin Cunningham knows him: distinguishedlooking. Sorry Ididnt work him about getting Molly into the choir instead of that FatherFarley who looked a fool but wasnt. Theyre taught that. Hes not goingout in bluey specs with the sweat rolling off him to baptise blacks, ishe? The glasses would take their fancy, flashing. Like to see them sittinground in a ring with blub lips, entranced, listening. Still life. Lap itup like milk, I suppose.The cold smell of sacred stone called him. He trod the worn steps,pushed the swingdoor and entered softly by the rere.Something going on: some sodality. Pity so empty. Nice discreet placeto be next some girl. Who is my neighbour? Jammed by the hour to slowmusic. That woman at midnight mass. Seventh heaven. Women knelt in thebenches with crimson halters round their necks, heads bowed. A batch kneltat the altarrails. The priest went along by them, murmuring, holding thething in his hands. He stopped at each, took out a communion, shook adrop or two (are they in water?) off it and put it neatly into her mouth.Her hat and head sank. Then the next one. Her hat sank at once. Then thenext one: a small old woman. The priest bent down to put it into hermouth, murmuring all the time. Latin. The next one. Shut your eyes andopen your mouth. What? CORPUS: body. Corpse. Good idea the Latin.Stupefies them first. Hospice for the dying. They dont seem to chew it:only swallow it down. Rum idea: eating bits of a corpse. Why the cannibalscotton to it.He stood aside watching their blind masks pass down the aisle, one byone, and seek their places. He approached a bench and seated himself inits corner, nursing his hat and newspaper. These pots we have to wear. Weought to have hats modelled on our heads. They were about him here andthere, with heads still bowed in their crimson halters, waiting for it tomelt in their stomachs. Something like those mazzoth: its that sort ofbread: unleavened shewbread. Look at them. Now I bet it makes them feelhappy. Lollipop. It does. Yes, bread of angels its called. Theres a bigidea behind it, kind of kingdom of God is within you feel. Firstcommunicants. Hokypoky penny a lump. Then feel all like one family party,same in the theatre, all in the same swim. They do. Im sure of that. Notso lonely. In our confraternity. Then come out a bit spreeish. Let offsteam. Thing is if you really believe in it. Lourdes cure, waters ofoblivion, and the Knock apparition, statues bleeding. Old fellow asleepnear that confessionbox. Hence those snores. Blind faith. Safe in the armsof kingdom come. Lulls all pain. Wake this time next year.He saw the priest stow the communion cup away, well in, and kneelan instant before it, showing a large grey bootsole from under the laceaffair he had on. Suppose he lost the pin of his. He wouldnt know what todo to. Bald spot behind. Letters on his back: I.N.R.I? No: I.H.S.Molly told me one time I asked her. I have sinned: or no: I have suffered,it is. And the other one? Iron nails ran in.Meet one Sunday after the rosary. Do not deny my request. Turn upwith a veil and black bag. Dusk and the light behind her. She might behere with a ribbon round her neck and do the other thing all the same onthe sly. Their character. That fellow that turned queens evidence on theinvincibles he used to receive the, Carey was his name, the communionevery morning. This very church. Peter Carey, yes. No, Peter Claver I amthinking of. Denis Carey. And just imagine that. Wife and six childrenat home. And plotting that murder all the time. Those crawthumpers,now thats a good name for them, theres always something shiftylookingabout them. Theyre not straight men of business either. O, no, shesnot here: the flower: no, no. By the way, did I tear up that envelope?Yes: under the bridge.The priest was rinsing out the chalice: then he tossed off the dregssmartly. Wine. Makes it more aristocratic than for example if he drankwhat they are used to Guinnesss porter or some temperance beverageWheatleys Dublin hop bitters or Cantrell and Cochranes ginger ale(aromatic). Doesnt give them any of it: shew wine: only the other. Coldcomfort. Pious fraud but quite right: otherwise theyd have one old booserworse than another coming along, cadging for a drink. Queer the wholeatmosphere of the. Quite right. Perfectly right that is.Mr Bloom looked back towards the choir. Not going to be any music.Pity. Who has the organ here I wonder? Old Glynn he knew how to makethat instrument talk, the VIBRATO: fifty pounds a year they say he had inGardiner street. Molly was in fine voice that day, the STABAT MATER ofRossini. Father Bernard Vaughans sermon first. Christ or Pilate? Christ,but dont keep us all night over it. Music they wanted. Footdrill stopped.Could hear a pin drop. I told her to pitch her voice against that corner.I could feel the thrill in the air, the full, the people looking up:QUIS EST HOMO.Some of that old sacred music splendid. Mercadante: seven lastwords. Mozarts twelfth mass: GLORIA in that. Those old popes keen onmusic, on art and statues and pictures of all kinds. Palestrina forexample too. They had a gay old time while it lasted. Healthy too,chanting, regular hours, then brew liqueurs. Benedictine. GreenChartreuse. Still, having eunuchs in their choir that was coming it a bitthick. What kind of voice is it? Must be curious to hear after their ownstrong basses. Connoisseurs. Suppose they wouldnt feel anything after.Kind of a placid. No worry. Fall into flesh, dont they? Gluttons, tall,long legs. Who knows? Eunuch. One way out of it.He saw the priest bend down and kiss the altar and then face aboutand bless all the people. All crossed themselves and stood up. Mr Bloomglanced about him and then stood up, looking over the risen hats. Stand upat the gospel of course. Then all settled down on their knees again and hesat back quietly in his bench. The priest came down from the altar,holding the thing out from him, and he and the massboy answered each otherin Latin. Then the priest knelt down and began to read off a card:--O God, our refuge and our strength ...Mr Bloom put his face forward to catch the words. English. Throwthem the bone. I remember slightly. How long since your last mass?Glorious and immaculate virgin. Joseph, her spouse. Peter and Paul. Moreinteresting if you understood what it was all about. Wonderfulorganisation certainly, goes like clockwork. Confession. Everyone wantsto. Then I will tell you all. Penance. Punish me, please. Great weapon intheir hands. More than doctor or solicitor. Woman dying to. And Ischschschschschsch. And did you chachachachacha? And why did you? Lookdown at her ring to find an excuse. Whispering gallery walls have ears.Husband learn to his surprise. Gods little joke. Then out she comes.Repentance skindeep. Lovely shame. Pray at an altar. Hail Mary andHoly Mary. Flowers, incense, candles melting. Hide her blushes.Salvation army blatant imitation. Reformed prostitute will addressthe meeting. How I found the Lord. Squareheaded chaps those must bein Rome: they work the whole show. And dont they rake in the money too?Bequests also: to the P.P. for the time being in his absolute discretion.Masses for the repose of my soul to be said publicly with open doors.Monasteries and convents. The priest in that Fermanagh will case inthe witnessbox. No browbeating him. He had his answer pat for everything.Liberty and exaltation of our holy mother the church. The doctors of thechurch: they mapped out the whole theology of it.The priest prayed:--Blessed Michael, archangel, defend us in the hour of conflict. Be oursafeguard against the wickedness and snares of the devil (may God restrainhim, we humbly pray!): and do thou, O prince of the heavenly host, by thepower of God thrust Satan down to hell and with him those other wickedspirits who wander through the world for the ruin of souls.The priest and the massboy stood up and walked off. All over. Thewomen remained behind: thanksgiving.Better be shoving along. Brother Buzz. Come around with the plateperhaps. Pay your Easter duty.He stood up. Hello. Were those two buttons of my waistcoat open allthe time? Women enjoy it. Never tell you. But we. Excuse, miss, theres a(whh!) just a (whh!) fluff. Or their skirt behind, placket unhooked.Glimpses of the moon. Annoyed if you dont. Why didnt you tell mebefore. Still like you better untidy. Good job it wasnt farther south. Hepassed, discreetly buttoning, down the aisle and out through the main doorinto the light. He stood a moment unseeing by the cold black marble bowlwhile before him and behind two worshippers dipped furtive hands in thelow tide of holy water. Trams: a car of Prescotts dyeworks: a widow inher  weeds. Notice because Im in mourning myself. He covered himself. Howgoes the time? Quarter past. Time enough yet. Better get that lotion madeup. Where is this? Ah yes, the last time. Swenys in Lincoln place.Chemists rarely move. Their green and gold beaconjars too heavy to stir.Hamilton Longs, founded in the year of the flood. Huguenot churchyardnear there. Visit some day.He walked southward along Westland row. But the recipe is in theother trousers. O, and I forgot that latchkey too. Bore this funeralaffair. O well, poor fellow, its not his fault. When was it I got it madeup last? Wait. I changed a sovereign I remember. First of the month itmust have been or the second. O, he can look it up in the prescriptionsbook.The chemist turned back page after page. Sandy shrivelled smell heseems to have. Shrunken skull. And old. Quest for the philosophers stone.The alchemists. Drugs age you after mental excitement. Lethargy then.Why? Reaction. A lifetime in a night. Gradually changes your character.Living all the day among herbs, ointments, disinfectants. All hisalabaster lilypots. Mortar and pestle. Aq. Dist. Fol. Laur. Te Virid.Smell almost cure you like the dentists doorbell. Doctor Whack. He oughtto physic himself a bit. Electuary or emulsion. The first fellow thatpicked an herb to cure himself had a bit of pluck. Simples. Want to becareful. Enough stuff here to chloroform you. Test: turns blue litmuspaper red. Chloroform. Overdose of laudanum. Sleeping draughts.Lovephiltres. Paragoric poppysyrup bad for cough. Clogs the pores or thephlegm. Poisons the only cures. Remedy where you least expect it. Cleverof nature.--About a fortnight ago, sir?--Yes, Mr Bloom said.He waited by the counter, inhaling slowly the keen reek of drugs, thedusty dry smell of sponges and loofahs. Lot of time taken up telling youraches and pains.--Sweet almond oil and tincture of benzoin, Mr Bloom said, and thenorangeflower water ...It certainly did make her skin so delicate white like wax.--And white wax also, he said.Brings out the darkness of her eyes. Looking at me, the sheet up toher eyes, Spanish, smelling herself, when I was fixing the links in mycuffs. Those homely recipes are often the best: strawberries for theteeth: nettles and rainwater: oatmeal they say steeped in buttermilk.Skinfood. One of the old queens sons, duke of Albany was it? had only oneskin. Leopold, yes. Three we have. Warts, bunions and pimples to make itworse. But you want a perfume too. What perfume does your? PEAU DESPAGNE.That orangeflower water is so fresh. Nice smell these soaps have. Purecurd soap. Time to get a bath round the corner. Hammam. Turkish. Massage.Dirt gets rolled up in your navel. Nicer if a nice girl did it. Also Ithink I. Yes I. Do it in the bath. Curious longing I. Water to water.Combine business with pleasure. Pity no time for massage. Feel fresh thenall the day. Funeral be rather glum.--Yes, sir, the chemist said. That was two and nine. Have you brought abottle?--No, Mr Bloom said. Make it up, please. Ill call later in the day andIll take one of these soaps. How much are they?--Fourpence, sir.Mr Bloom raised a cake to his nostrils. Sweet lemony wax.--Ill take this one, he said. That makes three and a penny.--Yes, sir, the chemist said. You can pay all together, sir, when youcome back.--Good, Mr Bloom said.He strolled out of the shop, the newspaper baton under his armpit,the coolwrappered soap in his left hand.At his armpit Bantam Lyons voice and hand said:--Hello, Bloom. Whats the best news? Is that todays? Show us a minute.Shaved off his moustache again, by Jove! Long cold upper lip. Tolook younger. He does look balmy. Younger than I am.Bantam Lyonss yellow blacknailed fingers unrolled the baton. Wantsa wash too. Take off the rough dirt. Good morning, have you used Pearssoap? Dandruff on his shoulders. Scalp wants oiling.--I want to see about that French horse thats running today, BantamLyons said. Where the bugger is it?He rustled the pleated pages, jerking his chin on his high collar.Barbers itch. Tight collar hell lose his hair. Better leave him thepaper and get shut of him.--You can keep it, Mr Bloom said.--Ascot. Gold cup. Wait, Bantam Lyons muttered. Half a mo. Maximumthe second.--I was just going to throw it away, Mr Bloom said.Bantam Lyons raised his eyes suddenly and leered weakly.--Whats that? his sharp voice said.--I say you can keep it, Mr Bloom answered. I was going to throw it awaythat moment.Bantam Lyons doubted an instant, leering: then thrust the outspreadsheets back on Mr Blooms arms.--Ill risk it, he said. Here, thanks.He sped off towards Conways corner. God speed scut.Mr Bloom folded the sheets again to a neat square and lodged thesoap in it, smiling. Silly lips of that chap. Betting. Regular hotbed ofit lately. Messenger boys stealing to put on sixpence. Raffle for largetender turkey. Your Christmas dinner for threepence. Jack Flemingembezzling to gamble then smuggled off to America. Keeps a hotel now. Theynever come back. Fleshpots of Egypt.He walked cheerfully towards the mosque of the baths. Remind youof a mosque, redbaked bricks, the minarets. College sports today I see. Heeyed the horseshoe poster over the gate of college park: cyclist doubledup like a cod in a pot. Damn bad ad. Now if they had made it round like awheel. Then the spokes: sports, sports, sports: and the hub big: college.Something to catch the eye.Theres Hornblower standing at the porters lodge. Keep him onhands: might take a turn in there on the nod. How do you do, MrHornblower? How do you do, sir?Heavenly weather really. If life was always like that. Cricket weather.Sit around under sunshades. Over after over. Out. They cant play it here.Duck for six wickets. Still Captain Culler broke a window in the Kildarestreet club with a slog to square leg. Donnybrook fair more in their line.And the skulls we were acracking when MCarthy took the floor.Heatwave. Wont last. Always passing, the stream of life, which in thestream of life we trace is dearer than them all.Enjoy a bath now: clean trough of water, cool enamel, the gentletepid stream. This is my body.He foresaw his pale body reclined in it at full, naked, in a womb ofwarmth, oiled by scented melting soap, softly laved. He saw his trunk andlimbs riprippled over and sustained, buoyed lightly upward, lemonyellow:his navel, bud of flesh: and saw the dark tangled curls of his bushfloating, floating hair of the stream around the limp father of thousands,a languid floating flower.    * * * * * * *Martin Cunningham, first, poked his silkhatted head into the creakingcarriage and, entering deftly, seated himself. Mr Power stepped in afterhim, curving his height with care.--Come on, Simon.--After you, Mr Bloom said.Mr Dedalus covered himself quickly and got in, saying:Yes, yes.--Are we all here now? Martin Cunningham asked. Come along, Bloom.Mr Bloom entered and sat in the vacant place. He pulled the door toafter him and slammed it twice till it shut tight. He passed an armthrough the armstrap and looked seriously from the open carriagewindow atthe lowered blinds of the avenue. One dragged aside: an old woman peeping.Nose whiteflattened against the pane. Thanking her stars she was passedover. Extraordinary the interest they take in a corpse. Glad to see us gowe give them such trouble coming. Job seems to suit them. Huggermugger incorners. Slop about in slipperslappers for fear hed wake. Then getting itready. Laying it out. Molly and Mrs Fleming making the bed. Pull it moreto your side. Our windingsheet. Never know who will touch you dead.Wash and shampoo. I believe they clip the nails and the hair. Keep a bitin an envelope. Grows all the same after. Unclean job.All waited. Nothing was said. Stowing in the wreaths probably. I amsitting on something hard. Ah, that soap: in my hip pocket. Better shiftit out of that. Wait for an opportunity.All waited. Then wheels were heard from in front, turning: thennearer: then horses hoofs. A jolt. Their carriage began to move, creakingand swaying. Other hoofs and creaking wheels started behind. The blindsof the avenue passed and number nine with its craped knocker, door ajar.At walking pace.They waited still, their knees jogging, till they had turned and werepassing along the tramtracks. Tritonville road. Quicker. The wheelsrattled rolling over the cobbled causeway and the crazy glasses shookrattling in the doorframes.--What way is he taking us? Mr Power asked through both windows.--Irishtown, Martin Cunningham said. Ringsend. Brunswick street.Mr Dedalus nodded, looking out.--Thats a fine old custom, he said. I am glad to see it has not died out.All watched awhile through their windows caps and hats lifted bypassers. Respect. The carriage swerved from the tramtrack to the smootherroad past Watery lane. Mr Bloom at gaze saw a lithe young man, clad inmourning, a wide hat.--Theres a friend of yours gone by, Dedalus, he said.--Who is that?--Your son and heir.--Where is he? Mr Dedalus said, stretching over across.The carriage, passing the open drains and mounds of rippeduproadway before the tenement houses, lurched round the corner and,swerving back to the tramtrack, rolled on noisily with chattering wheels.Mr Dedalus fell back, saying:--Was that Mulligan cad with him? His FIDUS ACHATES!--No, Mr Bloom said. He was alone.--Down with his aunt Sally, I suppose, Mr Dedalus said, the Gouldingfaction, the drunken little costdrawer and Crissie, papas little lump ofdung, the wise child that knows her own father.Mr Bloom smiled joylessly on Ringsend road. Wallace Bros: thebottleworks: Dodder bridge.Richie Goulding and the legal bag. Goulding, Collis and Ward hecalls the firm. His jokes are getting a bit damp. Great card he was.Waltzing in Stamer street with Ignatius Gallaher on a Sunday morning, thelandladys two hats pinned on his head. Out on the rampage all night.Beginning to tell on him now: that backache of his, I fear. Wife ironinghis back. Thinks hell cure it with pills. All breadcrumbs they are.About six hundred per cent profit.--Hes in with a lowdown crowd, Mr Dedalus snarled. That Mulligan is acontaminated bloody doubledyed ruffian by all accounts. His name stinksall over Dublin. But with the help of God and His blessed mother Ill makeit my business to write a letter one of those days to his mother or hisaunt or whatever she is that will open her eye as wide as a gate. Illtickle his catastrophe, believe you me.He cried above the clatter of the wheels:--I wont have her bastard of a nephew ruin my son. A counterjumpersson. Selling tapes in my cousin, Peter Paul MSwineys. Not likely.He ceased. Mr Bloom glanced from his angry moustache to Mr Powersmild face and Martin Cunninghams eyes and beard, gravely shaking.Noisy selfwilled man. Full of his son. He is right. Something tohand on. If little Rudy had lived. See him grow up. Hear his voice in thehouse. Walking beside Molly in an Eton suit. My son. Me in his eyes.Strange feeling it would be. From me. Just a chance. Must have been thatmorning in Raymond terrace she was at the window watching the two dogsat it by the wall of the cease to do evil. And the sergeant grinning up.She had that cream gown on with the rip she never stitched. Give us atouch, Poldy. God, Im dying for it. How life begins.Got big then. Had to refuse the Greystones concert. My son insideher. I could have helped him on in life. I could. Make him independent.Learn German too.--Are we late? Mr Power asked.--Ten minutes, Martin Cunningham said, looking at his watch.Molly. Milly. Same thing watered down. Her tomboy oaths. O jumpingJupiter! Ye gods and little fishes! Still, shes a dear girl. Soonbe a woman. Mullingar. Dearest Papli. Young student. Yes, yes: a womantoo. Life, life.The carriage heeled over and back, their four trunks swaying.--Corny might have given us a more commodious yoke, Mr Power said.--He might, Mr Dedalus said, if he hadnt that squint troubling him. Doyou follow me?He closed his left eye. Martin Cunningham began to brush awaycrustcrumbs from under his thighs.--What is this, he said, in the name of God? Crumbs?--Someone seems to have been making a picnic party here lately, Mr Powersaid.All raised their thighs and eyed with disfavour the mildewedbuttonless leather of the seats. Mr Dedalus, twisting his nose, frowneddownward and said:--Unless Im greatly mistaken. What do you think, Martin?--It struck me too, Martin Cunningham said.Mr Bloom set his thigh down. Glad I took that bath. Feel my feetquite clean. But I wish Mrs Fleming had darned these socks better.Mr Dedalus sighed resignedly.--After all, he said, its the most natural thing in the world.--Did Tom Kernan turn up? Martin Cunningham asked, twirling the peakof his beard gently.--Yes, Mr Bloom answered. Hes behind with Ned Lambert and Hynes.--And Corny Kelleher himself? Mr Power asked.--At the cemetery, Martin Cunningham said.--I met MCoy this morning, Mr Bloom said. He said hed try to come.The carriage halted short.--Whats wrong?--Were stopped.--Where are we?Mr Bloom put his head out of the window.--The grand canal, he said.Gasworks. Whooping cough they say it cures. Good job Milly nevergot it. Poor children! Doubles them up black and blue in convulsions.Shame really. Got off lightly with illnesses compared. Only measles.Flaxseed tea. Scarlatina, influenza epidemics. Canvassing for death. Dontmiss this chance. Dogs home over there. Poor old Athos! Be good to Athos,Leopold, is my last wish. Thy will be done. We obey them in the grave. Adying scrawl. He took it to heart, pined away. Quiet brute. Old mens dogsusually are.A raindrop spat on his hat. He drew back and saw an instant ofshower spray dots over the grey flags. Apart. Curious. Like through acolander. I thought it would. My boots were creaking I remember now.--The weather is changing, he said quietly.--A pity it did not keep up fine, Martin Cunningham said.--Wanted for the country, Mr Power said. Theres the sun again coming out.Mr Dedalus, peering through his glasses towards the veiled sun,hurled a mute curse at the sky.--Its as uncertain as a childs bottom, he said.--Were off again.The carriage turned again its stiff wheels and their trunks swayedgently. Martin Cunningham twirled more quickly the peak of his beard.--Tom Kernan was immense last night, he said. And Paddy Leonard takinghim off to his face.--O, draw him out, Martin, Mr Power said eagerly. Wait till you hear him,Simon, on Ben Dollards singing of THE CROPPY BOY.--Immense, Martin Cunningham said pompously. HIS SINGING OF THAT SIMPLEBALLAD, MARTIN, IS THE MOST TRENCHANT RENDERING I EVER HEARD IN THE WHOLECOURSE OF MY EXPERIENCE.--Trenchant, Mr Power said laughing. Hes dead nuts on that. And theretrospective arrangement.--Did you read Dan Dawsons speech? Martin Cunningham asked.--I did not then, Mr Dedalus said. Where is it?--In the paper this morning.Mr Bloom took the paper from his inside pocket. That book I mustchange for her.--No, no, Mr Dedalus said quickly. Later on please.Mr Blooms glance travelled down the edge of the paper, scanning thedeaths: Callan, Coleman, Dignam, Fawcett, Lowry, Naumann, Peake, whatPeake is that? is it the chap was in Crosbie and Alleynes? no, Sexton,Urbright. Inked characters fast fading on the frayed breaking paper.Thanks to the Little Flower. Sadly missed. To the inexpressible grief ofhis. Aged  after a long and tedious illness. Months mind: Quinlan.On whose soul Sweet Jesus have mercy.    IT IS NOW A MONTH SINCE DEAR HENRY FLED    TO HIS HOME UP ABOVE IN THE SKY    WHILE HIS FAMILY WEEPS AND MOURNS HIS LOSS    HOPING SOME DAY TO MEET HIM ON HIGH.I tore up the envelope? Yes. Where did I put her letter after I read it inthe bath? He patted his waistcoatpocket. There all right. Dear Henry fled.Before my patience are exhausted.National school. Meades yard. The hazard. Only two there now.Nodding. Full as a tick. Too much bone in their skulls. The other trottinground with a fare. An hour ago I was passing there. The jarvies raisedtheir hats.A pointsmans back straightened itself upright suddenly against atramway standard by Mr Blooms window. Couldnt they invent somethingautomatic so that the wheel itself much handier? Well but that fellowwould lose his job then? Well but then another fellow would get a jobmaking the new invention?Antient concert rooms. Nothing on there. A man in a buff suit with acrape armlet. Not much grief there. Quarter mourning. People in lawperhaps.They went past the bleak pulpit of saint Marks, under the railwaybridge, past the Queens theatre: in silence. Hoardings: Eugene Stratton,Mrs Bandmann Palmer. Could I go to see LEAH tonight, I wonder. I said I.Or the LILY OF KILLARNEY? Elster Grimes Opera Company. Big powerfulchange. Wet bright bills for next week. FUN ON THE BRISTOL. MartinCunningham could work a pass for the Gaiety. Have to stand a drink ortwo. As broad as its long.Hes coming in the afternoon. Her songs.Plastos. Sir Philip Cramptons memorial fountain bust. Who was he?--How do you do? Martin Cunningham said, raising his palm to his browin salute.--He doesnt see us, Mr Power said. Yes, he does. How do you do?--Who? Mr Dedalus asked.--Blazes Boylan, Mr Power said. There he is airing his quiff.Just that moment I was thinking.Mr Dedalus bent across to salute. From the door of the Red Bank thewhite disc of a straw hat flashed reply: spruce figure: passed.Mr Bloom reviewed the nails of his left hand, then those of his righthand. The nails, yes. Is there anything more in him that they she sees?Fascination. Worst man in Dublin. That keeps him alive. They sometimesfeel what a person is. Instinct. But a type like that. My nails. I am justlooking at them: well pared. And after: thinking alone. Body getting a bitsofty. I would notice that: from remembering. What causes that? I supposethe skin cant contract quickly enough when the flesh falls off. But theshape is there. The shape is there still. Shoulders. Hips. Plump. Night ofthe dance dressing. Shift stuck between the cheeks behind.He clasped his hands between his knees and, satisfied, sent his vacantglance over their faces.Mr Power asked:--How is the concert tour getting on, Bloom?--O, very well, Mr Bloom said. I hear great accounts of it. Its a goodidea, you see ...--Are you going yourself?--Well no, Mr Bloom said. In point of fact I have to go down to thecounty Clare on some private business. You see the idea is to tour thechief towns. What you lose on one you can make up on the other.--Quite so, Martin Cunningham said. Mary Anderson is up there now.Have you good artists?--Louis Werner is touring her, Mr Bloom said. O yes, well have alltopnobbers. J. C. Doyle and John MacCormack I hope and. The best, infact.--And MADAME, Mr Power said smiling. Last but not least.Mr Bloom unclasped his hands in a gesture of soft politeness andclasped them. Smith OBrien. Someone has laid a bunch of flowers there.Woman. Must be his deathday. For many happy returns. The carriagewheeling by Farrells statue united noiselessly their unresisting knees.Oot: a dullgarbed old man from the curbstone tendered his wares, hismouth opening: oot.--Four bootlaces for a penny.Wonder why he was struck off the rolls. Had his office in Humestreet. Same house as Mollys namesake, Tweedy, crown solicitor forWaterford. Has that silk hat ever since. Relics of old decency. Mourningtoo. Terrible comedown, poor wretch! Kicked about like snuff at a wake.OCallaghan on his last legs.And MADAME. Twenty past eleven. Up. Mrs Fleming is in to clean.Doing her hair, humming. VOGLIO E NON VORREI. No. VORREI E NON. Lookingat the tips of her hairs to see if they are split. MI TREMA UN POCO IL.Beautiful on that TRE her voice is: weeping tone. A thrush. A throstle.There is a word throstle that expresses that.His eyes passed lightly over Mr Powers goodlooking face. Greyishover the ears. MADAME: smiling. I smiled back. A smile goes a long way.Only politeness perhaps. Nice fellow. Who knows is that true about thewoman he keeps? Not pleasant for the wife. Yet they say, who was it toldme, there is no carnal. You would imagine that would get played out prettyquick. Yes, it was Crofton met him one evening bringing her a pound ofrumpsteak. What is this she was? Barmaid in Jurys. Or the Moira, was it?They passed under the hugecloaked Liberators form.Martin Cunningham nudged Mr Power.--Of the tribe of Reuben, he said.A tall blackbearded figure, bent on a stick, stumping round the cornerof Elverys Elephant house, showed them a curved hand open on his spine.--In all his pristine beauty, Mr Power said.Mr Dedalus looked after the stumping figure and said mildly:--The devil break the hasp of your back!Mr Power, collapsing in laughter, shaded his face from the window asthe carriage passed Grays statue.--We have all been there, Martin Cunningham said broadly.His eyes met Mr Blooms eyes. He caressed his beard, adding:--Well, nearly all of us.Mr Bloom began to speak with sudden eagerness to his companions faces.--Thats an awfully good one thats going the rounds about Reuben J andthe son.--About the boatman? Mr Power asked.--Yes. Isnt it awfully good?--What is that? Mr Dedalus asked. I didnt hear it.--There was a girl in the case, Mr Bloom began, and he determined to sendhim to the Isle of Man out of harms way but when they were both ...--What? Mr Dedalus asked. That confirmed bloody hobbledehoy is it?--Yes, Mr Bloom said. They were both on the way to the boat and he triedto drown ...--Drown Barabbas! Mr Dedalus cried. I wish to Christ he did!Mr Power sent a long laugh down his shaded nostrils.--No, Mr Bloom said, the son himself ...Martin Cunningham thwarted his speech rudely:--Reuben and the son were piking it down the quay next the river on theirway to the Isle of Man boat and the young chiseller suddenly got loose andover the wall with him into the Liffey.--For Gods sake! Mr Dedalus exclaimed in fright. Is he dead?--Dead! Martin Cunningham cried. Not he! A boatman got a pole andfished him out by the slack of the breeches and he was landed up to thefather on the quay more dead than alive. Half the town was there.--Yes, Mr Bloom said. But the funny part is ...--And Reuben J, Martin Cunningham said, gave the boatman a florin forsaving his sons life.A stifled sigh came from under Mr Powers hand.--O, he did, Martin Cunningham affirmed. Like a hero. A silver florin.--Isnt it awfully good? Mr Bloom said eagerly.--One and eightpence too much, Mr Dedalus said drily.Mr Powers choked laugh burst quietly in the carriage.Nelsons pillar.--Eight plums a penny! Eight for a penny!--We had better look a little serious, Martin Cunningham said.Mr Dedalus sighed.--Ah then indeed, he said, poor little Paddy wouldnt grudge us a laugh.Many a good one he told himself.--The Lord forgive me! Mr Power said, wiping his wet eyes with hisfingers. Poor Paddy! I little thought a week ago when I saw him last andhe was in his usual health that Id be driving after him like this. Hesgone from us.--As decent a little man as ever wore a hat, Mr Dedalus said. He wentvery suddenly.--Breakdown, Martin Cunningham said. Heart.He tapped his chest sadly.Blazing face: redhot. Too much John Barleycorn. Cure for a rednose. Drink like the devil till it turns adelite. A lot of money he spentcolouring it.Mr Power gazed at the passing houses with rueful apprehension.--He had a sudden death, poor fellow, he said.--The best death, Mr Bloom said.Their wide open eyes looked at him.--No suffering, he said. A moment and all is over. Like dying in sleep.No-one spoke.Dead side of the street this. Dull business by day, land agents,temperance hotel, Falconers railway guide, civil service college, Gills,catholic club, the industrious blind. Why? Some reason. Sun or wind. Atnight too. Chummies and slaveys. Under the patronage of the late FatherMathew. Foundation stone for Parnell. Breakdown. Heart.White horses with white frontlet plumes came round the Rotundacorner, galloping. A tiny coffin flashed by. In a hurry to bury. Amourning coach. Unmarried. Black for the married. Piebald for bachelors.Dun for a nun.--Sad, Martin Cunningham said. A child.A dwarfs face, mauve and wrinkled like little Rudys was. Dwarfsbody, weak as putty, in a whitelined deal box. Burial friendly societypays. Penny a week for a sod of turf. Our. Little. Beggar. Baby.Meant nothing. Mistake of nature. If its healthy its from the mother.If not from the man. Better luck next time.--Poor little thing, Mr Dedalus said. Its well out of it.The carriage climbed more slowly the hill of Rutland square. Rattlehis bones. Over the stones. Only a pauper. Nobody owns.--In the midst of life, Martin Cunningham said.--But the worst of all, Mr Power said, is the man who takes his own life.Martin Cunningham drew out his watch briskly, coughed and put it back.--The greatest disgrace to have in the family, Mr Power added.--Temporary insanity, of course, Martin Cunningham said decisively. Wemust take a charitable view of it.--They say a man who does it is a coward, Mr Dedalus said.--It is not for us to judge, Martin Cunningham said.Mr Bloom, about to speak, closed his lips again. Martin Cunninghamslarge eyes. Looking away now. Sympathetic human man he is. Intelligent.Like Shakespeares face. Always a good word to say. They have nomercy on that here or infanticide. Refuse christian burial. Theyused to drive a stake of wood through his heart in the grave. As if itwasnt broken already. Yet sometimes they repent too late. Found in theriverbed clutching rushes. He looked at me. And that awful drunkard of awife of his. Setting up house for her time after time and then pawning thefurniture on him every Saturday almost. Leading him the life of thedamned. Wear the heart out of a stone, that. Monday morning. Start afresh.Shoulder to the wheel. Lord, she must have looked a sight that nightDedalus told me he was in there. Drunk about the place and capering withMartins umbrella.    AND THEY CALL ME THE JEWEL OF ASIA,    OF ASIA,    THE GEISHA.He looked away from me. He knows. Rattle his bones.That afternoon of the inquest. The redlabelled bottle on the table. Theroom in the hotel with hunting pictures. Stuffy it was. Sunlight throughthe slats of the Venetian blind. The coroners sunlit ears, big and hairy.Boots giving evidence. Thought he was asleep first. Then saw like yellowstreaks on his face. Had slipped down to the foot of the bed. Verdict:overdose. Death by misadventure. The letter. For my son Leopold.No more pain. Wake no more. Nobody owns.The carriage rattled swiftly along Blessington street. Over the stones.--We are going the pace, I think, Martin Cunningham said.--God grant he doesnt upset us on the road, Mr Power said.--I hope not, Martin Cunningham said. That will be a great race tomorrowin Germany. The Gordon Bennett.--Yes, by Jove, Mr Dedalus said. That will be worth seeing, faith.As they turned into Berkeley street a streetorgan near the Basin sentover and after them a rollicking rattling song of the halls. Has anybodyhere seen Kelly? Kay ee double ell wy. Dead March from SAUL. Hes as badas old Antonio.  He left me on my ownio.  Pirouette!  The MATERMISERICORDIAE. Eccles street. My house down there. Big place. Ward forincurables there. Very encouraging. Our Ladys Hospice for the dying.Deadhouse handy underneath. Where old Mrs Riordan died. They lookterrible the women. Her feeding cup and rubbing her mouth with thespoon. Then the screen round her bed for her to die. Nice young studentthat was dressed that bite the bee gave me. Hes gone over to the lying-inhospital they told me. From one extreme to the other. The carriagegalloped round a corner: stopped.--Whats wrong now?A divided drove of branded cattle passed the windows, lowing,slouching by on padded hoofs, whisking their tails slowly on their clottedbony croups. Outside them and through them ran raddled sheep bleatingtheir fear.--Emigrants, Mr Power said.--Huuuh! the drovers voice cried, his switch sounding on their flanks.Huuuh! out of that!Thursday, of course. Tomorrow is killing day. Springers. Cuffe soldthem about twentyseven quid each. For Liverpool probably. Roastbeef forold England. They buy up all the juicy ones. And then the fifth quarterlost: all that raw stuff, hide, hair, horns. Comes to a big thing in ayear. Dead meat trade. Byproducts of the slaughterhouses for tanneries,soap, margarine. Wonder if that dodge works now getting dicky meat off thetrain at Clonsilla.The carriage moved on through the drove.--I cant make out why the corporation doesnt run a tramline from theparkgate to the quays, Mr Bloom said. All those animals could be taken intrucks down to the boats.--Instead of blocking up the thoroughfare, Martin Cunningham said. Quiteright. They ought to.--Yes, Mr Bloom said, and another thing I often thought, is to havemunicipal funeral trams like they have in Milan, you know. Run the lineout to the cemetery gates and have special trams, hearse and carriage andall. Dont you see what I mean?--O, that be damned for a story, Mr Dedalus said. Pullman car and saloondiningroom.--A poor lookout for Corny, Mr Power added.--Why? Mr Bloom asked, turning to Mr Dedalus. Wouldnt it be moredecent than galloping two abreast?--Well, theres something in that, Mr Dedalus granted.--And, Martin Cunningham said, we wouldnt have scenes like that whenthe hearse capsized round Dunphys and upset the coffin on to the road.--That was terrible, Mr Powers shocked face said, and the corpse fellabout the road. Terrible!--First round Dunphys, Mr Dedalus said, nodding. Gordon Bennett cup.--Praises be to God! Martin Cunningham said piously.Bom! Upset. A coffin bumped out on to the road. Burst open. PaddyDignam shot out and rolling over stiff in the dust in a brown habit toolarge for him. Red face: grey now. Mouth fallen open. Asking whats upnow. Quite right to close it. Looks horrid open. Then the insidesdecompose quickly. Much better to close up all the orifices. Yes, also.With wax. The sphincter loose. Seal up all.--Dunphys, Mr Power announced as the carriage turned right.Dunphys corner. Mourning coaches drawn up, drowning their grief.A pause by the wayside. Tiptop position for a pub. Expect well pull uphere on the way back to drink his health. Pass round the consolation.Elixir of life.But suppose now it did happen. Would he bleed if a nail say cut him inthe knocking about? He would and he wouldnt, I suppose. Depends onwhere. The circulation stops. Still some might ooze out of an artery. Itwould be better to bury them in red: a dark red.In silence they drove along Phibsborough road. An empty hearsetrotted by, coming from the cemetery: looks relieved.Crossguns bridge: the royal canal.Water rushed roaring through the sluices. A man stood on hisdropping barge, between clamps of turf. On the towpath by the lock aslacktethered horse. Aboard of the BUGABU.Their eyes watched him. On the slow weedy waterway he had floatedon his raft coastward over Ireland drawn by a haulage rope past beds ofreeds, over slime, mudchoked bottles, carrion dogs. Athlone, Mullingar,Moyvalley, I could make a walking tour to see Milly by the canal. Or cycledown. Hire some old crock, safety. Wren had one the other day at theauction but a ladys. Developing waterways. James MCanns hobby to rowme oer the ferry. Cheaper transit. By easy stages. Houseboats. Campingout. Also hearses. To heaven by water. Perhaps I will without writing.Come as a surprise, Leixlip, Clonsilla. Dropping down lock by lock toDublin. With turf from the midland bogs. Salute. He lifted his brown strawhat, saluting Paddy Dignam.They drove on past Brian Boroimhe house. Near it now.--I wonder how is our friend Fogarty getting on, Mr Power said.--Better ask Tom Kernan, Mr Dedalus said.--How is that? Martin Cunningham said. Left him weeping, I suppose?--Though lost to sight, Mr Dedalus said, to memory dear.The carriage steered left for Finglas road.The stonecutters yard on the right. Last lap. Crowded on the spit ofland silent shapes appeared, white, sorrowful, holding out calm hands,knelt in grief, pointing. Fragments of shapes, hewn. In white silence:appealing. The best obtainable. Thos. H. Dennany, monumental builder andsculptor.Passed.On the curbstone before Jimmy Geary, the sextons, an old tramp sat,grumbling, emptying the dirt and stones out of his huge dustbrownyawning boot. After lifes journey.Gloomy gardens then went by: one by one: gloomy houses.Mr Power pointed.--That is where Childs was murdered, he said. The last house.--So it is, Mr Dedalus said. A gruesome case. Seymour Bushe got him off.Murdered his brother. Or so they said.--The crown had no evidence, Mr Power said.--Only circumstantial, Martin Cunningham added. Thats the maxim ofthe law. Better for ninetynine guilty to escape than for one innocentperson to be wrongfully condemned.They looked. Murderers ground. It passed darkly. Shuttered,tenantless, unweeded garden. Whole place gone to hell. Wrongfullycondemned. Murder. The murderers image in the eye of the murdered.They love reading about it. Mans head found in a garden. Her clothingconsisted of. How she met her death. Recent outrage. The weapon used.Murderer is still at large. Clues. A shoelace. The body to be exhumed.Murder will out.Cramped in this carriage. She mightnt like me to come that waywithout letting her know. Must be careful about women. Catch them oncewith their pants down. Never forgive you after. Fifteen.The high railings of Prospect rippled past their gaze. Dark poplars,rare white forms. Forms more frequent, white shapes thronged amid thetrees, white forms and fragments streaming by mutely, sustaining vaingestures on the air.The felly harshed against the curbstone: stopped. MartinCunningham put out his arm and, wrenching back the handle, shoved thedoor open with his knee. He stepped out. Mr Power and Mr Dedalusfollowed.Change that soap now. Mr Blooms hand unbuttoned his hip pocketswiftly and transferred the paperstuck soap to his inner handkerchiefpocket. He stepped out of the carriage, replacing the newspaper his otherhand still held.Paltry funeral: coach and three carriages. Its all the same.Pallbearers, gold reins, requiem mass, firing a volley. Pomp of death.Beyond the hind carriage a hawker stood by his barrow of cakes and fruit.Simnel cakes those are, stuck together: cakes for the dead. Dogbiscuits.Who ate them? Mourners coming out.He followed his companions. Mr Kernan and Ned Lambert followed,Hynes walking after them. Corny Kelleher stood by the opened hearse andtook out the two wreaths. He handed one to the boy.Where is that childs funeral disappeared to?A team of horses passed from Finglas with toiling plodding tread,dragging through the funereal silence a creaking waggon on which lay agranite block. The waggoner marching at their head saluted.Coffin now. Got here before us, dead as he is. Horse looking round at itwith his plume skeowways. Dull eye: collar tight on his neck, pressing ona bloodvessel or something. Do they know what they cart out here everyday? Must be twenty or thirty funerals every day. Then Mount Jerome forthe protestants. Funerals all over the world everywhere every minute.Shovelling them under by the cartload doublequick. Thousands every hour.Too many in the world.Mourners came out through the gates: woman and a girl. Leanjawedharpy, hard woman at a bargain, her bonnet awry. Girls face stained withdirt and tears, holding the womans arm, looking up at her for a sign tocry. Fishs face, bloodless and livid.The mutes shouldered the coffin and bore it in through the gates. Somuch dead weight. Felt heavier myself stepping out of that bath. First thestiff: then the friends of the stiff. Corny Kelleher and the boy followedwith their wreaths. Who is that beside them? Ah, the brother-in-law.All walked after.Martin Cunningham whispered:--I was in mortal agony with you talking of suicide before Bloom.--What? Mr Power whispered. How so?--His father poisoned himself, Martin Cunningham whispered. Had theQueens hotel in Ennis. You heard him say he was going to Clare.Anniversary.--O God! Mr Power whispered. First I heard of it. Poisoned himself?He glanced behind him to where a face with dark thinking eyesfollowed towards the cardinals mausoleum. Speaking.--Was he insured? Mr Bloom asked.--I believe so, Mr Kernan answered. But the policy was heavily mortgaged.Martin is trying to get the youngster into Artane.--How many children did he leave?--Five. Ned Lambert says hell try to get one of the girls into Todds.--A sad case, Mr Bloom said gently. Five young children.--A great blow to the poor wife, Mr Kernan added.--Indeed yes, Mr Bloom agreed.Has the laugh at him now.He looked down at the boots he had blacked and polished. She hadoutlived him. Lost her husband. More dead for her than for me. One mustoutlive the other. Wise men say. There are more women than men in theworld. Condole with her. Your terrible loss. I hope youll soon followhim. For Hindu widows only. She would marry another. Him? No. Yet whoknows after. Widowhood not the thing since the old queen died. Drawn ona guncarriage. Victoria and Albert. Frogmore memorial mourning. But inthe end she put a few violets in her bonnet. Vain in her heart of hearts.All for a shadow. Consort not even a king. Her son was the substance.Something new to hope for not like the past she wanted back, waiting. Itnever comes. One must go first: alone, under the ground: and lie no morein her warm bed.--How are you, Simon? Ned Lambert said softly, clasping hands. Haventseen you for a month of Sundays.--Never better. How are all in Corks own town?--I was down there for the Cork park races on Easter Monday, NedLambert said. Same old six and eightpence. Stopped with Dick Tivy.--And how is Dick, the solid man?--Nothing between himself and heaven, Ned Lambert answered.--By the holy Paul! Mr Dedalus said in subdued wonder. Dick Tivy bald?--Martin is going to get up a whip for the youngsters, Ned Lambert said,pointing ahead. A few bob a skull. Just to keep them going till theinsurance is cleared up.--Yes, yes, Mr Dedalus said dubiously. Is that the eldest boy in front?--Yes, Ned Lambert said, with the wifes brother. John Henry Menton isbehind. He put down his name for a quid.--Ill engage he did, Mr Dedalus said. I often told poor Paddy he oughtto mind that job. John Henry is not the worst in the world.--How did he lose it? Ned Lambert asked. Liquor, what?--Many a good mans fault, Mr Dedalus said with a sigh.They halted about the door of the mortuary chapel. Mr Bloom stoodbehind the boy with the wreath looking down at his sleekcombed hair andat the slender furrowed neck inside his brandnew collar. Poor boy! Was hethere when the father? Both unconscious. Lighten up at the last momentand recognise for the last time. All he might have done. I owe threeshillings to OGrady. Would he understand? The mutes bore the coffin intothe chapel. Which end is his head?After a moment he followed the others in, blinking in the screenedlight. The coffin lay on its bier before the chancel, four tall yellowcandles at its corners. Always in front of us. Corny Kelleher, laying awreath at each fore corner, beckoned to the boy to kneel. The mournersknelt here and there in prayingdesks. Mr Bloom stood behind near the fontand, when all had knelt, dropped carefully his unfolded newspaper from hispocket and knelt his right knee upon it. He fitted his black hat gently onhis left knee and, holding its brim, bent over piously.A server bearing a brass bucket with something in it came out througha door. The whitesmocked priest came after him, tidying his stole with onehand, balancing with the other a little book against his toads belly.Wholl read the book? I, said the rook.They halted by the bier and the priest began to read out of his bookwith a fluent croak.Father Coffey. I knew his name was like a coffin. DOMINE-NAMINE.Bully about the muzzle he looks. Bosses the show. Muscular christian. Woebetide anyone that looks crooked at him: priest. Thou art Peter. Burstsideways like a sheep in clover Dedalus says he will. With a belly on himlike a poisoned pup. Most amusing expressions that man finds. Hhhn: burstsideways.--NON INTRES IN JUDICIUM CUM SERVO TUO, DOMINE.Makes them feel more important to be prayed over in Latin. Requiemmass. Crape weepers. Blackedged notepaper. Your name on the altarlist.Chilly place this. Want to feed well, sitting in there all the morning inthe gloom kicking his heels waiting for the next please. Eyes of a toadtoo. What swells him up that way? Molly gets swelled after cabbage. Air ofthe place maybe. Looks full up of bad gas. Must be an infernal lot of badgas round the place. Butchers, for instance: they get like raw beefsteaks.Who was telling me? Mervyn Browne. Down in the vaults of saint Werburghslovely old organ hundred and fifty they have to bore a hole in the coffinssometimes to let out the bad gas and burn it. Out it rushes: blue. Onewhiff of that and youre a goner.My kneecap is hurting me. Ow. Thats better.The priest took a stick with a knob at the end of it out of the boysbucket and shook it over the coffin. Then he walked to the other end andshook it again. Then he came back and put it back in the bucket. As youwere before you rested. Its all written down: he has to do it.--ET NE NOS INDUCAS IN TENTATIONEM.The server piped the answers in the treble. I often thought it would bebetter to have boy servants. Up to fifteen or so. After that, ofcourse ...Holy water that was, I expect. Shaking sleep out of it. He must be fedup with that job, shaking that thing over all the corpses they trot up.What harm if he could see what he was shaking it over. Every mortal day afresh batch: middleaged men, old women, children, women dead inchildbirth, men with beards, baldheaded businessmen, consumptive girlswith little sparrows breasts. All the year round he prayed the same thingover them all and shook water on top of them: sleep. On Dignam now.--IN PARADISUM.Said he was going to paradise or is in paradise. Says that over everybody.Tiresome kind of a job. But he has to say something.The priest closed his book and went off, followed by the server.Corny Kelleher opened the sidedoors and the gravediggers came in, hoistedthe coffin again, carried it out and shoved it on their cart. CornyKelleher gave one wreath to the boy and one to the brother-in-law. Allfollowed them out of the sidedoors into the mild grey air. Mr Bloom camelast folding his paper again into his pocket. He gazed gravely at theground till the coffincart wheeled off to the left. The metal wheelsground the gravel with a sharp grating cry and the pack of blunt bootsfollowed the trundled barrow along a lane of sepulchres.The ree the ra the ree the ra the roo. Lord, I mustnt lilt here.--The OConnell circle, Mr Dedalus said about him.Mr Powers soft eyes went up to the apex of the lofty cone.--Hes at rest, he said, in the middle of his people, old Dan O. But hisheart is buried in Rome. How many broken hearts are buried here, Simon!--Her grave is over there, Jack, Mr Dedalus said. Ill soon be stretchedbeside her. Let Him take me whenever He likes.Breaking down, he began to weep to himself quietly, stumbling a littlein his walk. Mr Power took his arm.--Shes better where she is, he said kindly.--I suppose so, Mr Dedalus said with a weak gasp. I suppose she is inheaven if there is a heaven.Corny Kelleher stepped aside from his rank and allowed the mourners toplod by.--Sad occasions, Mr Kernan began politely.Mr Bloom closed his eyes and sadly twice bowed his head.--The others are putting on their hats, Mr Kernan said. I suppose we cando so too. We are the last. This cemetery is a treacherous place.They covered their heads.--The reverend gentleman read the service too quickly, dont you think?Mr Kernan said with reproof.Mr Bloom nodded gravely looking in the quick bloodshot eyes. Secreteyes, secretsearching. Mason, I think: not sure. Beside him again. We arethe last. In the same boat. Hope hell say something else.Mr Kernan added:--The service of the Irish church used in Mount Jerome is simpler, moreimpressive I must say.Mr Bloom gave prudent assent. The language of course was another thing.Mr Kernan said with solemnity:--I AM THE RESURRECTION AND THE LIFE. That touches a mans inmost heart.--It does, Mr Bloom said.Your heart perhaps but what price the fellow in the six feet by twowith his toes to the daisies? No touching that. Seat of the affections.Broken heart. A pump after all, pumping thousands of gallons of bloodevery day. One fine day it gets bunged up: and there you are. Lots ofthem lying around here: lungs, hearts, livers. Old rusty pumps: damn thething else. The resurrection and the life. Once you are dead you are dead.That last day idea. Knocking them all up out of their graves. Come forth,Lazarus! And he came fifth and lost the job. Get up! Last day! Then everyfellow mousing around for his liver and his lights and the rest of histraps. Find damn all of himself that morning. Pennyweight of powder ina skull. Twelve grammes one pennyweight. Troy measure.Corny Kelleher fell into step at their side.--Everything went off A, he said. What?He looked on them from his drawling eye. Policemans shoulders. Withyour tooraloom tooraloom.--As it should be, Mr Kernan said.--What? Eh? Corny Kelleher said.Mr Kernan assured him.--Who is that chap behind with Tom Kernan? John Henry Menton asked. Iknow his face.Ned Lambert glanced back.--Bloom, he said, Madame Marion Tweedy that was, is, I mean, thesoprano. Shes his wife.--O, to be sure, John Henry Menton said. I havent seen her for some time.he was a finelooking woman. I danced with her, wait, fifteen seventeengolden years ago, at Mat Dillons in Roundtown. And a good armful shewas.He looked behind through the others.--What is he? he asked. What does he do? Wasnt he in the stationery line?I fell foul of him one evening, I remember, at bowls.Ned Lambert smiled.--Yes, he was, he said, in Wisdom Helys. A traveller for blottingpaper.--In Gods name, John Henry Menton said, what did she marry a coon likethat for? She had plenty of game in her then.--Has still, Ned Lambert said. He does some canvassing for ads.John Henry Mentons large eyes stared ahead.The barrow turned into a side lane. A portly man, ambushed amongthe grasses, raised his hat in homage. The gravediggers touched theircaps.--John OConnell, Mr Power said pleased. He never forgets a friend.Mr OConnell shook all their hands in silence. Mr Dedalus said:--I am come to pay you another visit.--My dear Simon, the caretaker answered in a low voice. I dont want yourcustom at all.Saluting Ned Lambert and John Henry Menton he walked on at MartinCunninghams side puzzling two long keys at his back.--Did you hear that one, he asked them, about Mulcahy from the Coombe?--I did not, Martin Cunningham said.They bent their silk hats in concert and Hynes inclined his ear. Thecaretaker hung his thumbs in the loops of his gold watchchain and spoke ina discreet tone to their vacant smiles.--They tell the story, he said, that two drunks came out here one foggyevening to look for the grave of a friend of theirs. They asked forMulcahy from the Coombe and were told where he was buried. After traipsingabout in the fog they found the grave sure enough. One of the drunks speltout the name: Terence Mulcahy. The other drunk was blinking up at a statueof Our Saviour the widow had got put up.The caretaker blinked up at one of the sepulchres they passed. Heresumed:--And, after blinking up at the sacred figure, NOT A BLOODY BIT LIKE THEMAN, SAYS HE. THATS NOT MULCAHY, says he, WHOEVER DONE IT.Rewarded by smiles he fell back and spoke with Corny Kelleher, acceptingthe dockets given him, turning them over and scanning them as he walked.--Thats all done with a purpose, Martin Cunningham explained to Hynes.--I know, Hynes said. I know that.--To cheer a fellow up, Martin Cunningham said. Its pure goodheartedness:damn the thing else.Mr Bloom admired the caretakers prosperous bulk. All want to be ongood terms with him. Decent fellow, John OConnell, real good sort. Keys:like Keyess ad: no fear of anyone getting out. No passout checks. HABEASCORPUS. I must see about that ad after the funeral. Did I writeBallsbridge on the envelope I took to cover when she disturbed me writingto Martha? Hope its not chucked in the dead letter office. Be the betterof a shave. Grey sprouting beard. Thats the first sign when the hairscome out grey. And temper getting cross. Silver threads among the grey.Fancy being his wife. Wonder he had the gumption to propose to any girl.Come out and live in the graveyard. Dangle that before her. It mightthrill her first. Courting death ... Shades of night hovering here withall the dead stretched about. The shadows of the tombs when churchyardsyawn and Daniel OConnell must be a descendant I suppose who is this usedto say he was a queer breedy man great catholic all the same like a biggiant in the dark. Will o the wisp. Gas of graves. Want to keep her mindoff it to conceive at all. Women especially are so touchy. Tell her aghost story in bed to make her sleep. Have you ever seen a ghost? Well, Ihave. It was a pitchdark night. The clock was on the stroke of twelve.Still theyd kiss all right if properly keyed up. Whores in Turkishgraveyards. Learn anything if taken young. You might pick up a youngwidow here. Men like that. Love among the tombstones. Romeo. Spice ofpleasure. In the midst of death we are in life. Both ends meet.Tantalising for the poor dead. Smell of grilled beefsteaks to thestarving. Gnawing their vitals. Desire to grig people. Molly wanting todo it at the window. Eight children he has anyway.He has seen a fair share go under in his time, lying around him fieldafter field. Holy fields. More room if they buried them standing. Sittingor kneeling you couldnt. Standing? His head might come up some day aboveground in a landslip with his hand pointing. All honeycombed the groundmust be: oblong cells. And very neat he keeps it too: trim grass andedgings. His garden Major Gamble calls Mount Jerome. Well, so it is.Ought to be flowers of sleep. Chinese cemeteries with giant poppiesgrowing produce the best opium Mastiansky told me. The Botanic Gardensare just over there. Its the blood sinking in the earth gives new life.Same idea those jews they said killed the christian boy. Every manhis price. Well preserved fat corpse, gentleman, epicure, invaluablefor fruit garden. A bargain. By carcass of William Wilkinson, auditorand accountant, lately deceased, three pounds thirteen and six.With thanks.I daresay the soil would be quite fat with corpsemanure, bones, flesh,nails. Charnelhouses. Dreadful. Turning green and pink decomposing. Rotquick in damp earth. The lean old ones tougher. Then a kind of a tallowykind of a cheesy. Then begin to get black, black treacle oozing out ofthem. Then dried up. Deathmoths. Of course the cells or whatever they arego on living. Changing about. Live for ever practically. Nothing to feedon feed on themselves.But they must breed a devil of a lot of maggots. Soil must be simplyswirling with them. Your head it simply swurls. Those pretty littleseaside gurls. He looks cheerful enough over it. Gives him a sense ofpower seeing all the others go under first. Wonder how he looks at life.Cracking his jokes too: warms the cockles of his heart. The one about thebulletin. Spurgeon went to heaven  a.m. this morning.  p.m.(closing time). Not arrived yet. Peter. The dead themselves the menanyhow would like to hear an odd joke or the women to know whats infashion. A juicy pear or ladies punch, hot, strong and sweet. Keep outthe damp. You must laugh sometimes so better do it that way. Gravediggersin HAMLET. Shows the profound knowledge of the human heart. Darent jokeabout the dead for two years at least. DE MORTUIS NIL NISI PRIUS. Go outof mourning first. Hard to imagine his funeral. Seems a sort of a joke.Read your own obituary notice they say you live longer. Gives you secondwind. New lease of life.--How many have-you for tomorrow? the caretaker asked.--Two, Corny Kelleher said. Half ten and eleven.The caretaker put the papers in his pocket. The barrow had ceased totrundle. The mourners split and moved to each side of the hole, steppingwith care round the graves. The gravediggers bore the coffin and set itsnose on the brink, looping the bands round it.Burying him. We come to bury Caesar. His ides of March or June.He doesnt know who is here nor care.Now who is that lankylooking galoot over there in the macintosh?Now who is he Id like to know? Now Id give a trifle to know who he is.Always someone turns up you never dreamt of. A fellow could live on hislonesome all his life. Yes, he could. Still hed have to get someone tosod him after he died though he could dig his own grave. We all do. Onlyman buries. No, ants too. First thing strikes anybody. Bury the dead. SayRobinson Crusoe was true to life. Well then Friday buried him. EveryFriday buries a Thursday if you come to look at it.    O, POOR ROBINSON CRUSOE!    HOW COULD YOU POSSIBLY DO SO?Poor Dignam! His last lie on the earth in his box. When you think ofthem all it does seem a waste of wood. All gnawed through. They couldinvent a handsome bier with a kind of panel sliding, let it down that way.Ay but they might object to be buried out of another fellows. Theyre soparticular. Lay me in my native earth. Bit of clay from the holy land.Only a mother and deadborn child ever buried in the one coffin. I see whatit means. I see. To protect him as long as possible even in the earth. TheIrishmans house is his coffin. Embalming in catacombs, mummies the sameidea.Mr Bloom stood far back, his hat in his hand, counting the baredheads. Twelve. Im thirteen. No. The chap in the macintosh is thirteen.Deaths number. Where the deuce did he pop out of? He wasnt in thechapel, that Ill swear. Silly superstition that about thirteen.Nice soft tweed Ned Lambert has in that suit. Tinge of purple. I hadone like that when we lived in Lombard street west. Dressy fellow he wasonce. Used to change three suits in the day. Must get that grey suit ofmine turned by Mesias. Hello. Its dyed. His wife I forgot hes notmarried or his landlady ought to have picked out those threads for him.The coffin dived out of sight, eased down by the men straddled on thegravetrestles. They struggled up and out: and all uncovered. Twenty.Pause.If we were all suddenly somebody else.Far away a donkey brayed. Rain. No such ass. Never see a dead one,they say. Shame of death. They hide. Also poor papa went away.Gentle sweet air blew round the bared heads in a whisper. Whisper.The boy by the gravehead held his wreath with both hands staring quietlyin the black open space. Mr Bloom moved behind the portly kindlycaretaker. Wellcut frockcoat. Weighing them up perhaps to see which willgo next. Well, it is a long rest. Feel no more. Its the moment you feel.Must be damned unpleasant. Cant believe it at first. Mistake must be:someone else. Try the house opposite. Wait, I wanted to. I havent yet.Then darkened deathchamber. Light they want. Whispering around you. Wouldyou like to see a priest? Then rambling and wandering. Delirium all youhid all your life. The death struggle. His sleep is not natural. Press hislower eyelid. Watching is his nose pointed is his jaw sinking are thesoles of his feet yellow. Pull the pillow away and finish it off on thefloor since hes doomed. Devil in that picture of sinners death showinghim a woman. Dying to embrace her in his shirt. Last act of LUCIA.SHALL I NEVERMORE BEHOLD THEE? Bam! He expires. Gone at last. Peopletalk about you a bit: forget you. Dont forget to pray for him.Remember him in your prayers. Even Parnell. Ivy day dying out. Thenthey follow: dropping into a hole, one after the other.We are praying now for the repose of his soul. Hoping youre welland not in hell. Nice change of air. Out of the fryingpan of life into thefire of purgatory.Does he ever think of the hole waiting for himself? They say you dowhen you shiver in the sun. Someone walking over it. Callboys warning.Near you. Mine over there towards Finglas, the plot I bought. Mamma,poor mamma, and little Rudy.The gravediggers took up their spades and flung heavy clods of clayin on the coffin. Mr Bloom turned away his face. And if he was alive allthe time? Whew! By jingo, that would be awful! No, no: he is dead, ofcourse. Of course he is dead. Monday he died. They ought to havesome law to pierce the heart and make sure or an electric clock ora telephone in the coffin and some kind of a canvas airhole. Flag ofdistress. Three days. Rather long to keep them in summer. Just as wellto get shut of them as soon as you are sure theres no.The clay fell softer. Begin to be forgotten. Out of sight, out of mind.The caretaker moved away a few paces and put on his hat. Hadenough of it. The mourners took heart of grace, one by one, coveringthemselves without show. Mr Bloom put on his hat and saw the portlyfigure make its way deftly through the maze of graves. Quietly, sure ofhis ground, he traversed the dismal fields.Hynes jotting down something in his notebook. Ah, the names. But heknows them all. No: coming to me.--I am just taking the names, Hynes said below his breath. What is yourchristian name? Im not sure.--L, Mr Bloom said. Leopold. And you might put down MCoys name too.He asked me to.--Charley, Hynes said writing. I know. He was on the FREEMAN once.So he was before he got the job in the morgue under Louis Byrne.Good idea a postmortem for doctors. Find out what they imagine theyknow. He died of a Tuesday. Got the run. Levanted with the cash of a fewads. Charley, youre my darling. That was why he asked me to. O well,does no harm. I saw to that, MCoy. Thanks, old chap: much obliged.Leave him under an obligation: costs nothing.--And tell us, Hynes said, do you know that fellow in the, fellow wasover there in the ...He looked around.--Macintosh. Yes, I saw him, Mr Bloom said. Where is he now?--MIntosh, Hynes said scribbling. I dont know who he is. Is thathis name?He moved away, looking about him.--No, Mr Bloom began, turning and stopping. I say, Hynes!Didnt hear. What? Where has he disappeared to? Not a sign. Well ofall the. Has anybody here seen? Kay ee double ell. Become invisible. GoodLord, what became of him?A seventh gravedigger came beside Mr Bloom to take up an idle spade.--O, excuse me!He stepped aside nimbly.Clay, brown, damp, began to be seen in the hole. It rose. Nearly over.A mound of damp clods rose more, rose, and the gravediggers rested theirspades. All uncovered again for a few instants. The boy propped his wreathagainst a corner: the brother-in-law his on a lump. The gravediggers puton their caps and carried their earthy spades towards the barrow. Thenknocked the blades lightly on the turf: clean. One bent to pluck from thehaft a long tuft of grass. One, leaving his mates, walked slowly on withshouldered weapon, its blade blueglancing. Silently at the graveheadanother coiled the coffinband. His navelcord. The brother-in-law, turningaway, placed something in his free hand. Thanks in silence. Sorry, sir:trouble. Headshake. I know that. For yourselves just.The mourners moved away slowly without aim, by devious paths,staying at whiles to read a name on a tomb.--Let us go round by the chiefs grave, Hynes said. We have time.--Let us, Mr Power said.They turned to the right, following their slow thoughts. With awe MrPowers blank voice spoke:--Some say he is not in that grave at all. That the coffin was filledwith stones. That one day he will come again.Hynes shook his head.--Parnell will never come again, he said. Hes there, all that was mortalof him. Peace to his ashes.Mr Bloom walked unheeded along his grove by saddened angels,crosses, broken pillars, family vaults, stone hopes praying with upcasteyes, old Irelands hearts and hands. More sensible to spend the money onsome charity for the living. Pray for the repose of the soul of. Doesanybody really? Plant him and have done with him. Like down a coalshoot.Then lump them together to save time. All souls day. Twentyseventh Illbe at his grave. Ten shillings for the gardener. He keeps it free ofweeds. Old man himself. Bent down double with his shears clipping. Neardeaths door. Who passed away. Who departed this life. As if they did itof their own accord. Got the shove, all of them. Who kicked the bucket.More interesting if they told you what they were. So and So, wheelwright.I travelled for cork lino. I paid five shillings in the pound. Or awomans with her saucepan. I cooked good Irish stew. Eulogy in a countrychurchyard it ought to be that poem of whose is it Wordsworth or ThomasCampbell. Entered into rest the protestants put it. Old Dr Murrens.The great physician called him home. Well its Gods acre for them.Nice country residence. Newly plastered and painted. Ideal spot tohave a quiet smoke and read the CHURCH TIMES. Marriage ads they nevertry to beautify. Rusty wreaths hung on knobs, garlands of bronzefoil.Better value that for the money. Still, the flowers are more poetical.The other gets rather tiresome, never withering. Expresses nothing.Immortelles.A bird sat tamely perched on a poplar branch. Like stuffed. Like thewedding present alderman Hooper gave us. Hoo! Not a budge out of him.Knows there are no catapults to let fly at him. Dead animal even sadder.Silly-Milly burying the little dead bird in the kitchen matchbox, adaisychain and bits of broken chainies on the grave.The Sacred Heart that is: showing it. Heart on his sleeve. Ought to besideways and red it should be painted like a real heart. Ireland wasdedicated to it or whatever that. Seems anything but pleased. Why thisinfliction? Would birds come then and peck like the boy with the basket offruit but he said no because they ought to have been afraid of the boy.Apollo that was.How many! All these here once walked round Dublin. Faithful departed.As you are now so once were we.Besides how could you remember everybody? Eyes, walk, voice. Well,the voice, yes: gramophone. Have a gramophone in every grave or keep itin the house. After dinner on a Sunday. Put on poor old greatgrandfather.Kraahraark! Hellohellohello amawfullyglad kraark awfullygladaseeagainhellohello amawf krpthsth. Remind you of the voice like the photographreminds you of the face. Otherwise you couldnt remember the face afterfifteen years, say. For instance who? For instance some fellow that diedwhen I was in Wisdom Helys.Rtststr! A rattle of pebbles. Wait. Stop!He looked down intently into a stone crypt. Some animal. Wait.There he goes.An obese grey rat toddled along the side of the crypt, moving thepebbles. An old stager: greatgrandfather: he knows the ropes. The greyalive crushed itself in under the plinth, wriggled itself in under it.Good hidingplace for treasure.Who lives there? Are laid the remains of Robert Emery. RobertEmmet was buried here by torchlight, wasnt he? Making his rounds.Tail gone now.One of those chaps would make short work of a fellow. Pick thebones clean no matter who it was. Ordinary meat for them. A corpse ismeat gone bad. Well and whats cheese? Corpse of milk. I read in thatVOYAGES IN CHINA that the Chinese say a white man smells like a corpse.Cremation better. Priests dead against it. Devilling for the other firm.Wholesale burners and Dutch oven dealers. Time of the plague. Quicklimefeverpits to eat them. Lethal chamber. Ashes to ashes. Or bury at sea.Where is that Parsee tower of silence? Eaten by birds. Earth, fire, water.Drowning they say is the pleasantest. See your whole life in a flash. Butbeing brought back to life no. Cant bury in the air however. Out of aflying machine. Wonder does the news go about whenever a fresh one is letdown. Underground communication. We learned that from them. Wouldnt besurprised. Regular square feed for them. Flies come before hes well dead.Got wind of Dignam. They wouldnt care about the smell of it. Saltwhitecrumbling mush of corpse: smell, taste like raw white turnips.The gates glimmered in front: still open. Back to the world again.Enough of this place. Brings you a bit nearer every time. Last time I washere was Mrs Sinicos funeral. Poor papa too. The love that kills. Andeven scraping up the earth at night with a lantern like that case I readof to get at fresh buried females or even putrefied with runninggravesores. Give you the creeps after a bit. I will appear to you afterdeath. You will see my ghost after death. My ghost will haunt you afterdeath. There is another world after death named hell. I do not like thatother world she wrote. No more do I. Plenty to see and hear and feel yet.Feel live warm beings near you. Let them sleep in their maggoty beds. Theyare not going to get me this innings. Warm beds: warm fullblooded life.Martin Cunningham emerged from a sidepath, talking gravely.Solicitor, I think. I know his face. Menton, John Henry, solicitor,commissioner for oaths and affidavits. Dignam used to be in his office.Mat Dillons long ago. Jolly Mat. Convivial evenings. Cold fowl, cigars,the Tantalus glasses. Heart of gold really. Yes, Menton. Got his rag outthat evening on the bowlinggreen because I sailed inside him. Pure flukeof mine: the bias. Why he took such a rooted dislike to me. Hate at firstsight. Molly and Floey Dillon linked under the lilactree, laughing.Fellow always like that, mortified if women are by.Got a dinge in the side of his hat. Carriage probably.--Excuse me, sir, Mr Bloom said beside them.They stopped.--Your hat is a little crushed, Mr Bloom said pointing.John Henry Menton stared at him for an instant without moving.--There, Martin Cunningham helped, pointing also. John Henry Menton tookoff his hat, bulged out the dinge and smoothed the nap with care on hiscoatsleeve. He clapped the hat on his head again.--Its all right now, Martin Cunningham said.John Henry Menton jerked his head down in acknowledgment.--Thank you, he said shortly.They walked on towards the gates. Mr Bloom, chapfallen, drewbehind a few paces so as not to overhear. Martin laying down the law.Martin could wind a sappyhead like that round his little finger, withouthis seeing it.Oyster eyes. Never mind. Be sorry after perhaps when it dawns on him.Get the pull over him that way.Thank you. How grand we are this morning!    * * * * * * *    IN THE HEART OF THE HIBERNIAN METROPOLISBefore Nelsons pillar trams slowed, shunted, changed trolley, startedfor Blackrock, Kingstown and Dalkey, Clonskea, Rathgar and Terenure,Palmerston Park and upper Rathmines, Sandymount Green, Rathmines,Ringsend and Sandymount Tower, Harolds Cross. The hoarse DublinUnited Tramway Companys timekeeper bawled them off:--Rathgar and Terenure!--Come on, Sandymount Green!Right and left parallel clanging ringing a doubledecker and asingledeck moved from their railheads, swerved to the down line, glidedparallel.--Start, Palmerston Park!    THE WEARER OF THE CROWNUnder the porch of the general post office shoeblacks called andpolished. Parked in North Princes street His Majestys vermilionmailcars, bearing on their sides the royal initials, E. R., receivedloudly flung sacks of letters, postcards, lettercards, parcels, insuredand paid, for local, provincial, British and overseas delivery.    GENTLEMEN OF THE PRESSGrossbooted draymen rolled barrels dullthudding out of Princesstores and bumped them up on the brewery float. On the brewery floatbumped dullthudding barrels rolled by grossbooted draymen out ofPrinces stores.--There it is, Red Murray said. Alexander Keyes.--Just cut it out, will you? Mr Bloom said, and Ill take it round to theTELEGRAPH office.The door of Ruttledges office creaked again. Davy Stephens, minutein a large capecoat, a small felt hat crowning his ringlets, passed outwith a roll of papers under his cape, a kings courier.Red Murrays long shears sliced out the advertisement from thenewspaper in four clean strokes. Scissors and paste.--Ill go through the printingworks, Mr Bloom said, taking the cut square.--Of course, if he wants a par, Red Murray said earnestly, a pen behindhis ear, we can do him one.--Right, Mr Bloom said with a nod. Ill rub that in.We.    WILLIAM BRAYDEN,    ESQUIRE, OF OAKLANDS, SANDYMOUNTRed Murray touched Mr Blooms arm with the shears and whispered:--Brayden.Mr Bloom turned and saw the liveried porter raise his lettered cap as astately figure entered between the newsboards of the WEEKLY FREEMAN ANDNATIONAL PRESS and the FREEMANS JOURNAL AND NATIONAL PRESS. DullthuddingGuinnesss barrels. It passed statelily up the staircase, steered by anumbrella, a solemn beardframed face. The broadcloth back ascended eachstep: back. All his brains are in the nape of his neck, Simon Dedalussays. Welts of flesh behind on him. Fat folds of neck, fat, neck, fat,neck.--Dont you think his face is like Our Saviour? Red Murray whispered.The door of Ruttledges office whispered: ee: cree. They always buildone door opposite another for the wind to. Way in. Way out.Our Saviour: beardframed oval face: talking in the dusk. Mary,Martha. Steered by an umbrella sword to the footlights: Mario the tenor.--Or like Mario, Mr Bloom said.--Yes, Red Murray agreed. But Mario was said to be the picture of OurSaviour.Jesusmario with rougy cheeks, doublet and spindle legs. Hand on hisheart. In MARTHA.    CO-OME THOU LOST ONE,    CO-OME THOU DEAR ONE!    THE CROZIER AND THE PEN--His grace phoned down twice this morning, Red Murray said gravely.They watched the knees, legs, boots vanish. Neck.A telegram boy stepped in nimbly, threw an envelope on the counterand stepped off posthaste with a word:--FREEMAN!Mr Bloom said slowly:--Well, he is one of our saviours also.A meek smile accompanied him as he lifted the counterflap, as hepassed in through a sidedoor and along the warm dark stairs and passage,along the now reverberating boards. But will he save the circulation?Thumping. Thumping.He pushed in the glass swingdoor and entered, stepping over strewnpacking paper. Through a lane of clanking drums he made his way towardsNannettis reading closet.    WITH UNFEIGNED REGRET IT IS WE ANNOUNCE THE DISSOLUTION    OF A MOST RESPECTED DUBLIN BURGESSHynes here too: account of the funeral probably. Thumping. Thump.This morning the remains of the late Mr Patrick Dignam. Machines.Smash a man to atoms if they got him caught. Rule the world today. Hismachineries are pegging away too. Like these, got out of hand: fermenting.Working away, tearing away. And that old grey rat tearing to get in.    HOW A GREAT DAILY ORGAN IS TURNED OUTMr Bloom halted behind the foremans spare body, admiring a glossy crown.Strange he never saw his real country. Ireland my country. Memberfor College green. He boomed that workaday worker tack for all it wasworth. Its the ads and side features sell a weekly, not the stale news inthe official gazette. Queen Anne is dead. Published by authority in theyear one thousand and. Demesne situate in the townland of Rosenallis,barony of Tinnahinch. To all whom it may concern schedule pursuant tostatute showing return of number of mules and jennets exported fromBallina. Nature notes. Cartoons. Phil Blakes weekly Pat and Bull story.Uncle Tobys page for tiny tots. Country bumpkins queries. Dear MrEditor, what is a good cure for flatulence? Id like that part. Learn alot teaching others. The personal note. M. A. P. Mainly all pictures.Shapely bathers on golden strand. Worlds biggest balloon. Double marriageof sisters celebrated. Two bridegrooms laughing heartily at each other.Cuprani too, printer. More Irish than the Irish.The machines clanked in threefour time. Thump, thump, thump.Now if he got paralysed there and no-one knew how to stop them theydclank on and on the same, print it over and over and up and back.Monkeydoodle the whole thing. Want a cool head.--Well, get it into the evening edition, councillor, Hynes said.Soon be calling him my lord mayor. Long John is backing him, they say.The foreman, without answering, scribbled press on a corner of thesheet and made a sign to a typesetter. He handed the sheet silently overthe dirty glass screen.--Right: thanks, Hynes said moving off.Mr Bloom stood in his way.--If you want to draw the cashier is just going to lunch, he said,pointing backward with his thumb.--Did you? Hynes asked.--Mm, Mr Bloom said. Look sharp and youll catch him.--Thanks, old man, Hynes said. Ill tap him too.He hurried on eagerly towards the FREEMANS JOURNAL.Three bob I lent him in Meaghers. Three weeks. Third hint.    WE SEE THE CANVASSER AT WORKMr Bloom laid his cutting on Mr Nannettis desk.--Excuse me, councillor, he said. This ad, you see. Keyes, you remember?Mr Nannetti considered the cutting awhile and nodded.--He wants it in for July, Mr Bloom said.The foreman moved his pencil towards it.--But wait, Mr Bloom said. He wants it changed. Keyes, you see. He wantstwo keys at the top.Hell of a racket they make. He doesnt hear it. Nannan. Iron nerves.Maybe he understands what I.The foreman turned round to hear patiently and, lifting an elbow,began to scratch slowly in the armpit of his alpaca jacket.--Like that, Mr Bloom said, crossing his forefingers at the top.Let him take that in first.Mr Bloom, glancing sideways up from the cross he had made, saw theforemans sallow face, think he has a touch of jaundice, and beyond theobedient reels feeding in huge webs of paper. Clank it. Clank it. Miles ofit unreeled. What becomes of it after? O, wrap up meat, parcels: varioususes, thousand and one things.Slipping his words deftly into the pauses of the clanking he drewswiftly on the scarred woodwork.    HOUSE OF KEY(E)S--Like that, see. Two crossed keys here. A circle. Then here the name.Alexander Keyes, tea, wine and spirit merchant. So on.Better not teach him his own business.--You know yourself, councillor, just what he wants. Then round the topin leaded: the house of keys. You see? Do you think thats a good idea?The foreman moved his scratching hand to his lower ribs and scratchedthere quietly.--The idea, Mr Bloom said, is the house of keys. You know, councillor,the Manx parliament. Innuendo of home rule. Tourists, you know, from theisle of Man. Catches the eye, you see. Can you do that?I could ask him perhaps about how to pronounce that voglio. Butthen if he didnt know only make it awkward for him. Better not.--We can do that, the foreman said. Have you the design?--I can get it, Mr Bloom said. It was in a Kilkenny paper. He has a housethere too. Ill just run out and ask him. Well, you can do that and just alittle par calling attention. You know the usual. Highclass licensedpremises. Longfelt want. So on.The foreman thought for an instant.--We can do that, he said. Let him give us a three months renewal.A typesetter brought him a limp galleypage. He began to check itsilently. Mr Bloom stood by, hearing the loud throbs of cranks, watchingthe silent typesetters at their cases.    ORTHOGRAPHICALWant to be sure of his spelling. Proof fever. Martin Cunninghamforgot to give us his spellingbee conundrum this morning. It is amusing toview the unpar one ar alleled embarra two ars is it? double ess ment of aharassed pedlar while gauging au the symmetry with a y of a peeled pearunder a cemetery wall. Silly, isnt it? Cemetery put in of course onaccount of the symmetry.I should have said when he clapped on his topper. Thank you. I oughtto have said something about an old hat or something. No. I could havesaid. Looks as good as new now. See his phiz then.Sllt. The nethermost deck of the first machine jogged forward itsflyboard with sllt the first batch of quirefolded papers. Sllt. Almosthuman the way it sllt to call attention. Doing its level best to speak.That door too sllt creaking, asking to be shut. Everything speaks in itsown way. Sllt.    NOTED CHURCHMAN AN OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTORThe foreman handed back the galleypage suddenly, saying:--Wait. Wheres the archbishops letter? Its to be repeated in theTELEGRAPH. Wheres whats his name?He looked about him round his loud unanswering machines.--Monks, sir? a voice asked from the castingbox.--Ay. Wheres Monks?--Monks!Mr Bloom took up his cutting. Time to get out.--Then Ill get the design, Mr Nannetti, he said, and youll give it agood place I know.--Monks!--Yes, sir.Three months renewal. Want to get some wind off my chest first. Tryit anyhow. Rub in August: good idea: horseshow month. Ballsbridge.Tourists over for the show.    A DAYFATHERHe walked on through the caseroom passing an old man, bowed,spectacled, aproned. Old Monks, the dayfather. Queer lot of stuff he musthave put through his hands in his time: obituary notices, pubs ads,speeches, divorce suits, found drowned. Nearing the end of his tether now.Sober serious man with a bit in the savingsbank Id say. Wife a good cookand washer. Daughter working the machine in the parlour. Plain Jane, nodamn nonsense.    AND IT WAS THE FEAST OF THE PASSOVERHe stayed in his walk to watch a typesetter neatly distributing type.Reads it backwards first. Quickly he does it. Must require some practicethat. mangiD kcirtaP. Poor papa with his hagadah book, readingbackwards with his finger to me. Pessach. Next year in Jerusalem. Dear, Odear! All that long business about that brought us out of the land ofEgypt and into the house of bondage ALLELUIA. SHEMA ISRAEL ADONAI ELOHENU.No, thats the other. Then the twelve brothers, Jacobs sons. And then thelamb and the cat and the dog and the stick and the water and the butcher.And then the angel of death kills the butcher and he kills the ox and thedog kills the cat. Sounds a bit silly till you come to look into it well.Justice it means but its everybody eating everyone else. Thats what lifeis after all. How quickly he does that job. Practice makes perfect. Seemsto see with his fingers.Mr Bloom passed on out of the clanking noises through the gallery onto the landing. Now am I going to tram it out all the way and then catchhim out perhaps. Better phone him up first. Number? Yes. Same as Citronshouse. Twentyeight. Twentyeight double four.    ONLY ONCE MORE THAT SOAPHe went down the house staircase. Who the deuce scrawled all overthose walls with matches? Looks as if they did it for a bet. Heavy greasysmell there always is in those works. Lukewarm glue in Thoms next doorwhen I was there.He took out his handkerchief to dab his nose. Citronlemon? Ah, thesoap I put there. Lose it out of that pocket. Putting back hishandkerchief he took out the soap and stowed it away, buttoned, into thehip pocket of his trousers.What perfume does your wife use? I could go home still: tram:something I forgot. Just to see: before: dressing. No. Here. No.A sudden screech of laughter came from the EVENING TELEGRAPH office. Knowwho that is. Whats up? Pop in a minute to phone. Ned Lambert it is.He entered softly.    ERIN, GREEN GEM OF THE SILVER SEA--The ghost walks, professor MacHugh murmured softly, biscuitfully tothe dusty windowpane.Mr Dedalus, staring from the empty fireplace at Ned Lambertsquizzing face, asked of it sourly:--Agonising Christ, wouldnt it give you a heartburn on your arse?Ned Lambert, seated on the table, read on:--OR AGAIN, NOTE THE MEANDERINGS OF SOME PURLING RILL AS IT BABBLES ONITS WAY, THO QUARRELLING WITH THE STONY OBSTACLES, TO THE TUMBLING WATERSOF NEPTUNES BLUE DOMAIN, MID MOSSY BANKS, FANNED BY GENTLEST ZEPHYRS,PLAYED ON BY THE GLORIOUS SUNLIGHT OR NEATH THE SHADOWS CAST OER ITSPENSIVE BOSOM BY THE OVERARCHING LEAFAGE OF THE GIANTS OF THE FOREST. Whatabout that, Simon? he asked over the fringe of his newspaper. Hows thatfor high?--Changing his drink, Mr Dedalus said.Ned Lambert, laughing, struck the newspaper on his knees, repeating:--THE PENSIVE BOSOM AND THE OVERARSING LEAFAGE. O boys! O boys!--And Xenophon looked upon Marathon, Mr Dedalus said, looking againon the fireplace and to the window, and Marathon looked on the sea.--That will do, professor MacHugh cried from the window. I dont want tohear any more of the stuff.He ate off the crescent of water biscuit he had been nibbling and,hungered, made ready to nibble the biscuit in his other hand.High falutin stuff. Bladderbags. Ned Lambert is taking a day off Isee. Rather upsets a mans day, a funeral does. He has influence they say.Old Chatterton, the vicechancellor, is his granduncle or hisgreatgranduncle. Close on ninety they say. Subleader for his death writtenthis long time perhaps. Living to spite them. Might go first himself.Johnny, make room for your uncle. The right honourable Hedges EyreChatterton. Daresay he writes him an odd shaky cheque or two on gale days.Windfall when he kicks out. Alleluia.--Just another spasm, Ned Lambert said.--What is it? Mr Bloom asked.--A recently discovered fragment of Cicero, professor MacHugh answeredwith pomp of tone. OUR LOVELY LAND.    SHORT BUT TO THE POINT--Whose land? Mr Bloom said simply.--Most pertinent question, the professor said between his chews. With anaccent on the whose.--Dan Dawsons land Mr Dedalus said.--Is it his speech last night? Mr Bloom asked.Ned Lambert nodded.--But listen to this, he said.The doorknob hit Mr Bloom in the small of the back as the door waspushed in.--Excuse me, J. J. OMolloy said, entering.Mr Bloom moved nimbly aside.--I beg yours, he said.--Good day, Jack.--Come in. Come in.--Good day.--How are you, Dedalus?--Well. And yourself?J. J. OMolloy shook his head.    SADCleverest fellow at the junior bar he used to be. Decline, poor chap.That hectic flush spells finis for a man. Touch and go with him. Whats inthe wind, I wonder. Money worry.--OR AGAIN IF WE BUT CLIMB THE SERRIED MOUNTAIN PEAKS.--Youre looking extra.--Is the editor to be seen? J. J. OMolloy asked, looking towards theinner door.--Very much so, professor MacHugh said. To be seen and heard. Hes inhis sanctum with Lenehan.J. J. OMolloy strolled to the sloping desk and began to turn back thepink pages of the file.Practice dwindling. A mighthavebeen. Losing heart. Gambling. Debtsof honour. Reaping the whirlwind. Used to get good retainers from D. andT. Fitzgerald. Their wigs to show the grey matter. Brains on their sleevelike the statue in Glasnevin. Believe he does some literary work for theEXPRESS with Gabriel Conroy. Wellread fellow. Myles Crawford began onthe INDEPENDENT. Funny the way those newspaper men veer about whenthey get wind of a new opening. Weathercocks. Hot and cold in the samebreath. Wouldnt know which to believe. One story good till you hear thenext. Go for one another baldheaded in the papers and then all blows over.Hail fellow well met the next moment.--Ah, listen to this for God sake, Ned Lambert pleaded. OR AGAIN IF WEBUT CLIMB THE SERRIED MOUNTAIN PEAKS ...--Bombast! the professor broke in testily. Enough of the inflatedwindbag!--Peaks, Ned Lambert went on, TOWERING HIGH ON HIGH, TO BATHE OUR SOULS,AS IT WERE ...--Bathe his lips, Mr Dedalus said. Blessed and eternal God! Yes? Is hetaking anything for it?--AS TWERE, IN THE PEERLESS PANORAMA OF IRELANDS PORTFOLIO, UNMATCHED,DESPITE THEIR WELLPRAISED PROTOTYPES IN OTHER VAUNTED PRIZE REGIONS, FORVERY BEAUTY, OF BOSKY GROVE AND UNDULATING PLAIN AND LUSCIOUS PASTURELANDOF VERNAL GREEN, STEEPED IN THE TRANSCENDENT TRANSLUCENT GLOW OF OUR MILDMYSTERIOUS IRISH TWILIGHT ...    HIS NATIVE DORIC--The moon, professor MacHugh said. He forgot Hamlet.--THAT MANTLES THE VISTA FAR AND WIDE AND WAIT TILL THE GLOWING ORB OFTHE MOON SHINE FORTH TO IRRADIATE HER SILVER EFFULGENCE ...--O! Mr Dedalus cried, giving vent to a hopeless groan. Shite and onions!Thatll do, Ned. Life is too short.He took off his silk hat and, blowing out impatiently his bushymoustache, welshcombed his hair with raking fingers.Ned Lambert tossed the newspaper aside, chuckling with delight. Aninstant after a hoarse bark of laughter burst over professor MacHughsunshaven blackspectacled face.--Doughy Daw! he cried.    WHAT WETHERUP SAIDAll very fine to jeer at it now in cold print but it goes down like hotcake that stuff. He was in the bakery line too, wasnt he? Why they callhim Doughy Daw. Feathered his nest well anyhow. Daughter engaged to thatchap in the inland revenue office with the motor. Hooked that nicely.Entertainments. Open house. Big blowout. Wetherup always said that. Geta grip of them by the stomach.The inner door was opened violently and a scarlet beaked face,crested by a comb of feathery hair, thrust itself in. The bold blue eyesstared about them and the harsh voice asked:--What is it?--And here comes the sham squire himself! professor MacHugh said grandly.--Getonouthat, you bloody old pedagogue! the editor said in recognition.--Come, Ned, Mr Dedalus said, putting on his hat. I must get a drinkafter that.--Drink! the editor cried. No drinks served before mass.--Quite right too, Mr Dedalus said, going out. Come on, Ned.Ned Lambert sidled down from the table. The editors blue eyes rovedtowards Mr Blooms face, shadowed by a smile.--Will you join us, Myles? Ned Lambert asked.    MEMORABLE BATTLES RECALLED--North Cork militia! the editor cried, striding to the mantelpiece. Wewon every time! North Cork and Spanish officers!--Where was that, Myles? Ned Lambert asked with a reflective glance athis toecaps.--In Ohio! the editor shouted.--So it was, begad, Ned Lambert agreed.Passing out he whispered to J. J. OMolloy:--Incipient jigs. Sad case.--Ohio! the editor crowed in high treble from his uplifted scarlet face.My Ohio!--A perfect cretic! the professor said. Long, short and long.    O, HARP EOLIAN!He took a reel of dental floss from his waistcoat pocket and, breakingoff a piece, twanged it smartly between two and two of his resonantunwashed teeth.--Bingbang, bangbang.Mr Bloom, seeing the coast clear, made for the inner door.--Just a moment, Mr Crawford, he said. I just want to phone about an ad.He went in.--What about that leader this evening? professor MacHugh asked, comingto the editor and laying a firm hand on his shoulder.--Thatll be all right, Myles Crawford said more calmly. Never you fret.Hello, Jack. Thats all right.--Good day, Myles, J. J. OMolloy said, letting the pages he held sliplimply back on the file. Is that Canada swindle case on today?The telephone whirred inside.--Twentyeight ... No, twenty ... Double four ... Yes.    SPOT THE WINNERLenehan came out of the inner office with SPORTS tissues.--Who wants a dead cert for the Gold cup? he asked. Sceptre with O.Madden up.He tossed the tissues on to the table.Screams of newsboys barefoot in the hall rushed near and the doorwas flung open.--Hush, Lenehan said. I hear feetstoops.Professor MacHugh strode across the room and seized the cringingurchin by the collar as the others scampered out of the hall and down thesteps. The tissues rustled up in the draught, floated softly in the airblue scrawls and under the table came to earth.--It wasnt me, sir. It was the big fellow shoved me, sir.--Throw him out and shut the door, the editor said. Theres a hurricaneblowing.Lenehan began to paw the tissues up from the floor, grunting as hestooped twice.--Waiting for the racing special, sir, the newsboy said. It was PatFarrell shoved me, sir.He pointed to two faces peering in round the doorframe.--Him, sir.--Out of this with you, professor MacHugh said gruffly.He hustled the boy out and banged the door to.J. J. OMolloy turned the files crackingly over, murmuring, seeking:--Continued on page six, column four.--Yes, EVENING TELEGRAPH here, Mr Bloom phoned from the inner office. Isthe boss ...? Yes, TELEGRAPH ... To where? Aha! Which auction rooms ?...Aha! I see ... Right. Ill catch him.    A COLLISION ENSUESThe bell whirred again as he rang off. He came in quickly andbumped against Lenehan who was struggling up with the second tissue.--PARDON, MONSIEUR, Lenehan said, clutching him for an instant and makinga grimace.--My fault, Mr Bloom said, suffering his grip. Are you hurt? Im in ahurry.--Knee, Lenehan said.He made a comic face and whined, rubbing his knee:--The accumulation of the ANNO DOMINI.--Sorry, Mr Bloom said.He went to the door and, holding it ajar, paused. J. J. OMolloyslapped the heavy pages over. The noise of two shrill voices, amouthorgan, echoed in the bare hallway from the newsboys squatted on thedoorsteps:  --WE ARE THE BOYS OF WEXFORD    WHO FOUGHT WITH HEART AND HAND.    EXIT BLOOM--Im just running round to Bachelors walk, Mr Bloom said, about this adof Keyess. Want to fix it up. They tell me hes round there in Dillons.He looked indecisively for a moment at their faces. The editor who,leaning against the mantelshelf, had propped his head on his hand,suddenly stretched forth an arm amply.--Begone! he said. The world is before you.--Back in no time, Mr Bloom said, hurrying out.J. J. OMolloy took the tissues from Lenehans hand and read them,blowing them apart gently, without comment.--Hell get that advertisement, the professor said, staring through hisblackrimmed spectacles over the crossblind. Look at the young scamps afterhim.--Show. Where? Lenehan cried, running to the window.    A STREET CORTEGEBoth smiled over the crossblind at the file of capering newsboys in MrBlooms wake, the last zigzagging white on the breeze a mocking kite, atail of white bowknots.--Look at the young guttersnipe behind him hue and cry, Lenehan said, andyoull kick. O, my rib risible! Taking off his flat spaugs and the walk.Small nines. Steal upon larks.He began to mazurka in swift caricature across the floor on slidingfeet past the fireplace to J. J. OMolloy who placed the tissues in hisreceiving hands.--Whats that? Myles Crawford said with a start. Where are the other twogone?--Who? the professor said, turning. Theyre gone round to the Oval for adrink. Paddy Hooper is there with Jack Hall. Came over last night.--Come on then, Myles Crawford said. Wheres my hat?He walked jerkily into the office behind, parting the vent of his jacket,jingling his keys in his back pocket. They jingled then in the air andagainst the wood as he locked his desk drawer.--Hes pretty well on, professor MacHugh said in a low voice.--Seems to be, J. J. OMolloy said, taking out a cigarettecase inmurmuring meditation, but it is not always as it seems. Who has the mostmatches?    THE CALUMET OF PEACEHe offered a cigarette to the professor and took one himself. Lenehanpromptly struck a match for them and lit their cigarettes in turn. J. J.OMolloy opened his case again and offered it.--THANKY VOUS, Lenehan said, helping himself.The editor came from the inner office, a straw hat awry on his brow.He declaimed in song, pointing sternly at professor MacHugh:  --TWAS RANK AND FAME THAT TEMPTED THEE,    TWAS EMPIRE CHARMED THY HEART.The professor grinned, locking his long lips.--Eh? You bloody old Roman empire? Myles Crawford said.He took a cigarette from the open case. Lenehan, lighting it for himwith quick grace, said:--Silence for my brandnew riddle!--IMPERIUM ROMANUM, J. J. OMolloy said gently. It sounds nobler thanBritish or Brixton. The word reminds one somehow of fat in the fire.Myles Crawford blew his first puff violently towards the ceiling.--Thats it, he said. We are the fat. You and I are the fat in the fire.We havent got the chance of a snowball in hell.    THE GRANDEUR THAT WAS ROME--Wait a moment, professor MacHugh said, raising two quiet claws. Wemustnt be led away by words, by sounds of words. We think of Rome,imperial, imperious, imperative.He extended elocutionary arms from frayed stained shirtcuffs, pausing:--What was their civilisation? Vast, I allow: but vile. Cloacae: sewers.The Jews in the wilderness and on the mountaintop said: IT IS MEET TO BEHERE. LET US BUILD AN ALTAR TO JEHOVAH. The Roman, like the Englishman whofollows in his footsteps, brought to every new shore on which he set hisfoot (on our shore he never set it) only his cloacal obsession. He gazedabout him in his toga and he said: IT IS MEET TO BE HERE. LET US CONSTRUCTA WATERCLOSET.--Which they accordingly did do, Lenehan said. Our old ancient ancestors,as we read in the first chapter of Guinnesss, were partial to the runningstream.--They were natures gentlemen, J. J. OMolloy murmured. But we havealso Roman law.--And Pontius Pilate is its prophet, professor MacHugh responded.--Do you know that story about chief baron Palles? J. J. OMolloy asked.It was at the royal university dinner. Everything was goingswimmingly ...--First my riddle, Lenehan said. Are you ready?Mr OMadden Burke, tall in copious grey of Donegal tweed, came infrom the hallway. Stephen Dedalus, behind him, uncovered as he entered.--ENTREZ, MES ENFANTS! Lenehan cried.--I escort a suppliant, Mr OMadden Burke said melodiously. Youth led byExperience visits Notoriety.--How do you do? the editor said, holding out a hand. Come in. Yourgovernor is just gone.    ? ? ?Lenehan said to all:--Silence! What opera resembles a railwayline? Reflect, ponder,excogitate, reply.Stephen handed over the typed sheets, pointing to the title and signature.--Who? the editor asked.Bit torn off.--Mr Garrett Deasy, Stephen said.--That old pelters, the editor said. Who tore it? Was he short taken?    ON SWIFT SAIL FLAMING    FROM STORM AND SOUTH    HE COMES, PALE VAMPIRE,    MOUTH TO MY MOUTH.--Good day, Stephen, the professor said, coming to peer over theirshoulders. Foot and mouth? Are you turned ...?Bullockbefriending bard.    SHINDY IN WELLKNOWN RESTAURANT--Good day, sir, Stephen answered blushing. The letter is not mine. MrGarrett Deasy asked me to ...--O, I know him, Myles Crawford said, and I knew his wife too. Thebloodiest old tartar God ever made. By Jesus, she had the foot and mouthdisease and no mistake! The night she threw the soup in the waiters facein the Star and Garter. Oho!A woman brought sin into the world. For Helen, the runaway wife ofMenelaus, ten years the Greeks. ORourke, prince of Breffni.--Is he a widower? Stephen asked.--Ay, a grass one, Myles Crawford said, his eye running down thetypescript. Emperors horses. Habsburg. An Irishman saved his life on theramparts of Vienna. Dont you forget! Maximilian Karl ODonnell, grafvon Tirconnell in Ireland. Sent his heir over to make the king an Austrianfieldmarshal now. Going to be trouble there one day. Wild geese. O yes,every time. Dont you forget that!--The moot point is did he forget it, J. J. OMolloy said quietly,turning a horseshoe paperweight. Saving princes is a thank you job.Professor MacHugh turned on him.--And if not? he said.--Ill tell you how it was, Myles Crawford began. A Hungarian it was oneday ...    LOST CAUSES    NOBLE MARQUESS MENTIONED--We were always loyal to lost causes, the professor said. Success for usis the death of the intellect and of the imagination. We were never loyalto the successful. We serve them. I teach the blatant Latin language. Ispeak the tongue of a race the acme of whose mentality is the maxim: timeis money. Material domination. DOMINUS! Lord! Where is the spirituality?Lord Jesus? Lord Salisbury? A sofa in a westend club. But the Greek!    KYRIE ELEISON!A smile of light brightened his darkrimmed eyes, lengthened his longlips.--The Greek! he said again. KYRIOS! Shining word! The vowels the Semiteand the Saxon know not. KYRIE! The radiance of the intellect. I ought toprofess Greek, the language of the mind. KYRIE ELEISON! The closetmakerand the cloacamaker will never be lords of our spirit. We are liegesubjects of the catholic chivalry of Europe that foundered at Trafalgarand of the empire of the spirit, not an IMPERIUM, that went under with theAthenian fleets at Aegospotami. Yes, yes. They went under. Pyrrhus, misledby an oracle, made a last attempt to retrieve the fortunes of Greece.Loyal to a lost cause.He strode away from them towards the window.--They went forth to battle, Mr OMadden Burke said greyly, but theyalways fell.--Boohoo! Lenehan wept with a little noise. Owing to a brick received inthe latter half of the matinee. Poor, poor, poor Pyrrhus!He whispered then near Stephens ear:    LENEHANS LIMERICK  --THERES A PONDEROUS PUNDIT MACHUGH    WHO WEARS GOGGLES OF EBONY HUE.    AS HE MOSTLY SEES DOUBLE    TO WEAR THEM WHY TROUBLE?    I CANT SEE THE JOE MILLER. CAN YOU?In mourning for Sallust, Mulligan says. Whose mother is beastly dead.Myles Crawford crammed the sheets into a sidepocket.--Thatll be all right, he said. Ill read the rest after. Thatll be allright.Lenehan extended his hands in protest.--But my riddle! he said. What opera is like a railwayline?--Opera? Mr OMadden Burkes sphinx face reriddled.Lenehan announced gladly:--THE ROSE OF CASTILE. See the wheeze? Rows of cast steel. Gee!He poked Mr OMadden Burke mildly in the spleen. Mr OMadden Burkefell back with grace on his umbrella, feigning a gasp.--Help! he sighed. I feel a strong weakness.Lenehan, rising to tiptoe, fanned his face rapidly with the rustlingtissues.The professor, returning by way of the files, swept his hand acrossStephens and Mr OMadden Burkes loose ties.--Paris, past and present, he said. You look like communards.--Like fellows who had blown up the Bastile, J. J. OMolloy said in quietmockery. Or was it you shot the lord lieutenant of Finland between you?You look as though you had done the deed. General Bobrikoff.    OMNIUM GATHERUM--We were only thinking about it, Stephen said.--All the talents, Myles Crawford said. Law, the classics ...--The turf, Lenehan put in.--Literature, the press.--If Bloom were here, the professor said. The gentle art of advertisement.--And Madam Bloom, Mr OMadden Burke added. The vocal muse. Dublinsprime favourite. Lenehan gave a loud cough.--Ahem! he said very softly. O, for a fresh of breath air! I caught acold in the park. The gate was open.    YOU CAN DO IT!The editor laid a nervous hand on Stephens shoulder.--I want you to write something for me, he said. Something with a bite init. You can do it. I see it in your face. IN THE LEXICON OF YOUTH ...See it in your face. See it in your eye. Lazy idle little schemer.--Foot and mouth disease! the editor cried in scornful invective. Greatnationalist meeting in Borris-in-Ossory. All balls! Bulldosing the public!Give them something with a bite in it. Put us all into it, damn its soul.Father, Son and Holy Ghost and Jakes MCarthy.--We can all supply mental pabulum, Mr OMadden Burke said.Stephen raised his eyes to the bold unheeding stare.--He wants you for the pressgang, J. J. OMolloy said.    THE GREAT GALLAHER--You can do it, Myles Crawford repeated, clenching his hand in emphasis.Wait a minute. Well paralyse Europe as Ignatius Gallaher used to say whenhe was on the shaughraun, doing billiardmarking in the Clarence. Gallaher,that was a pressman for you. That was a pen. You know how he made hismark? Ill tell you. That was the smartest piece of journalism ever known.That was in eightyone, sixth of May, time of the invincibles, murder inthe Phoenix park, before you were born, I suppose. Ill show you.He pushed past them to the files.--Look at here, he said turning. The NEW YORK WORLD cabled for a special.Remember that time?Professor MacHugh nodded.--NEW YORK WORLD, the editor said, excitedly pushing back his straw hat.Where it took place. Tim Kelly, or Kavanagh I mean. Joe Brady and therest of them. Where Skin-the-Goat drove the car. Whole route, see?--Skin-the-Goat, Mr OMadden Burke said. Fitzharris. He has thatcabmans shelter, they say, down there at Butt bridge. Holohan told me.You know Holohan?--Hop and carry one, is it? Myles Crawford said.--And poor Gumley is down there too, so he told me, minding stones forthe corporation. A night watchman.Stephen turned in surprise.--Gumley? he said. You dont say so? A friend of my fathers, is it?--Never mind Gumley, Myles Crawford cried angrily. Let Gumley mindthe stones, see they dont run away. Look at here. What did IgnatiusGallaher do? Ill tell you. Inspiration of genius. Cabled right away. Haveyou WEEKLY FREEMAN of  March? Right. Have you got that?He flung back pages of the files and stuck his finger on a point.--Take page four, advertisement for Bransomes coffee, let us say. Haveyou got that? Right.The telephone whirred.    A DISTANT VOICE--Ill answer it, the professor said, going.--B is parkgate. Good.His finger leaped and struck point after point, vibrating.--T is viceregal lodge. C is where murder took place. K is Knockmaroongate.The loose flesh of his neck shook like a cocks wattles. An illstarcheddicky jutted up and with a rude gesture he thrust it back into hiswaistcoat.--Hello? EVENING TELEGRAPH here ... Hello?... Whos there? ...Yes ... Yes ... Yes.--F to P is the route Skin-the-Goat drove the car for an alibi, Inchicore,Roundtown, Windy Arbour, Palmerston Park, Ranelagh. F.A.B.P. Got that?X is Davys publichouse in upper Leeson street.The professor came to the inner door.--Bloom is at the telephone, he said.--Tell him go to hell, the editor said promptly. X is Davys publichouse,see?    CLEVER, VERY--Clever, Lenehan said. Very.--Gave it to them on a hot plate, Myles Crawford said, the whole bloodyhistory.Nightmare from which you will never awake.--I saw it, the editor said proudly. I was present. Dick Adams, thebesthearted bloody Corkman the Lord ever put the breath of life in, andmyself.Lenehan bowed to a shape of air, announcing:--Madam, Im Adam. And Able was I ere I saw Elba.--History! Myles Crawford cried. The Old Woman of Princes street wasthere first. There was weeping and gnashing of teeth over that. Out of anadvertisement. Gregor Grey made the design for it. That gave him the legup. Then Paddy Hooper worked Tay Pay who took him on to the Star.Now hes got in with Blumenfeld. Thats press. Thats talent. Pyatt! Hewas all their daddies!--The father of scare journalism, Lenehan confirmed, and thebrother-in-law of Chris Callinan.--Hello? ... Are you there? ... Yes, hes here still. Come acrossyourself.--Where do you find a pressman like that now, eh? the editor cried.He flung the pages down.--Clamn dever, Lenehan said to Mr OMadden Burke.--Very smart, Mr OMadden Burke said.Professor MacHugh came from the inner office.--Talking about the invincibles, he said, did you see that some hawkerswere up before the recorder--O yes, J. J. OMolloy said eagerly. Lady Dudley was walking homethrough the park to see all the trees that were blown down by that cyclonelast year and thought shed buy a view of Dublin. And it turned out to bea commemoration postcard of Joe Brady or Number One or Skin-the-Goat.Right outside the viceregal lodge, imagine!--Theyre only in the hook and eye department, Myles Crawford said.Psha! Press and the bar! Where have you a man now at the bar like thosefellows, like Whiteside, like Isaac Butt, like silvertongued OHagan. Eh?Ah, bloody nonsense. Psha! Only in the halfpenny place.His mouth continued to twitch unspeaking in nervous curls of disdain.Would anyone wish that mouth for her kiss? How do you know? Why didyou write it then?    RHYMES AND REASONSMouth, south. Is the mouth south someway? Or the south a mouth?Must be some. South, pout, out, shout, drouth. Rhymes: two men dressedthe same, looking the same, two by two.    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .LA TUA PACE    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CHE PARLAR TI PIACE    . . . . .MENTREM CHE IL VENTO, COME FA, SI TACE.He saw them three by three, approaching girls, in green, in rose, inrusset, entwining, PER LAER PERSO, in mauve, in purple, QUELLA PACIFICAORIAFIAMMA, gold of oriflamme, DI RIMIRAR FE PIU ARDENTI. But I old men,penitent, leadenfooted, underdarkneath the night: mouth south: tomb womb.--Speak up for yourself, Mr OMadden Burke said.    SUFFICIENT FOR THE DAY ...J. J. OMolloy, smiling palely, took up the gage.--My dear Myles, he said, flinging his cigarette aside, you put a falseconstruction on my words. I hold no brief, as at present advised, for thethird profession qua profession but your Cork legs are running away withyou. Why not bring in Henry Grattan and Flood and Demosthenes andEdmund Burke? Ignatius Gallaher we all know and his Chapelizod boss,Harmsworth of the farthing press, and his American cousin of the Boweryguttersheet not to mention PADDY KELLYS BUDGET, PUES OCCURRENCES and ourwatchful friend THE SKIBBEREEN EAGLE. Why bring in a master of forensiceloquence like Whiteside? Sufficient for the day is the newspaper thereof.    LINKS WITH BYGONE DAYS OF YORE--Grattan and Flood wrote for this very paper, the editor cried in hisface. Irish volunteers. Where are you now? Established . Dr Lucas.Who have you now like John Philpot Curran? Psha!--Well, J. J. OMolloy said, Bushe K.C., for example.--Bushe? the editor said. Well, yes: Bushe, yes. He has a strain of it inhis blood. Kendal Bushe or I mean Seymour Bushe.--He would have been on the bench long ago, the professor said, onlyfor ... But no matter.J. J. OMolloy turned to Stephen and said quietly and slowly:--One of the most polished periods I think I ever listened to in my lifefell from the lips of Seymour Bushe. It was in that case of fratricide,the Childs murder case. Bushe defended him.    AND IN THE PORCHES OF MINE EAR DID POUR.By the way how did he find that out? He died in his sleep. Or theother story, beast with two backs?--What was that? the professor asked.    ITALIA, MAGISTRA ARTIUM--He spoke on the law of evidence, J. J. OMolloy said, of Roman justiceas contrasted with the earlier Mosaic code, the LEX TALIONIS. And he citedthe Moses of Michelangelo in the vatican.--Ha.--A few wellchosen words, Lenehan prefaced. Silence!Pause. J. J. OMolloy took out his cigarettecase.False lull. Something quite ordinary.Messenger took out his matchbox thoughtfully and lit his cigar.I have often thought since on looking back over that strange time thatit was that small act, trivial in itself, that striking of that match,that determined the whole aftercourse of both our lives.    A POLISHED PERIODJ. J. OMolloy resumed, moulding his words:--He said of it: THAT STONY EFFIGY IN FROZEN MUSIC, HORNED AND TERRIBLE,OF THE HUMAN FORM DIVINE, THAT ETERNAL SYMBOL OF WISDOM AND OF PROPHECYWHICH, IF AUGHT THAT THE IMAGINATION OR THE HAND OF SCULPTOR HAS WROUGHTIN MARBLE OF SOULTRANSFIGURED AND OF SOULTRANSFIGURING DESERVES TO LIVE,DESERVES TO LIVE.His slim hand with a wave graced echo and fall.--Fine! Myles Crawford said at once.--The divine afflatus, Mr OMadden Burke said.--You like it? J. J. OMolloy asked Stephen.Stephen, his blood wooed by grace of language and gesture, blushed.He took a cigarette from the case. J. J. OMolloy offered his case toMyles Crawford. Lenehan lit their cigarettes as before and took histrophy, saying:--Muchibus thankibus.    A MAN OF HIGH MORALE--Professor Magennis was speaking to me about you, J. J. OMolloy said toStephen. What do you think really of that hermetic crowd, the opal hushpoets: A. E. the mastermystic? That Blavatsky woman started it. She was anice old bag of tricks. A. E. has been telling some yankee interviewerthat you came to him in the small hours of the morning to ask him aboutplanes of consciousness. Magennis thinks you must have been pullingA. E.s leg. He is a man of the very highest morale, Magennis.Speaking about me. What did he say? What did he say? What did hesay about me? Dont ask.--No, thanks, professor MacHugh said, waving the cigarettecase aside.Wait a moment. Let me say one thing. The finest display of oratory I everheard was a speech made by John F Taylor at the college historicalsociety. Mr Justice Fitzgibbon, the present lord justice of appeal, hadspoken and the paper under debate was an essay (new for those days),advocating the revival of the Irish tongue.He turned towards Myles Crawford and said:--You know Gerald Fitzgibbon. Then you can imagine the style of hisdiscourse.--He is sitting with Tim Healy, J. J. OMolloy said, rumour has it, onthe Trinity college estates commission.--He is sitting with a sweet thing, Myles Crawford said, in a childsfrock. Go on. Well?--It was the speech, mark you, the professor said, of a finished orator,full of courteous haughtiness and pouring in chastened diction I will notsay the vials of his wrath but pouring the proud mans contumely upon thenew movement. It was then a new movement. We were weak, thereforeworthless.He closed his long thin lips an instant but, eager to be on, raised anoutspanned hand to his spectacles and, with trembling thumb andringfinger touching lightly the black rims, steadied them to a new focus.    IMPROMPTUIn ferial tone he addressed J. J. OMolloy:--Taylor had come there, you must know, from a sickbed. That he hadprepared his speech I do not believe for there was not even oneshorthandwriter in the hall. His dark lean face had a growth of shaggybeard round it. He wore a loose white silk neckcloth and altogether helooked (though he was not) a dying man.His gaze turned at once but slowly from J. J. OMolloys towardsStephens face and then bent at once to the ground, seeking. His unglazedlinen collar appeared behind his bent head, soiled by his withering hair.Still seeking, he said:--When Fitzgibbons speech had ended John F Taylor rose to reply.Briefly, as well as I can bring them to mind, his words were these.He raised his head firmly. His eyes bethought themselves once more.Witless shellfish swam in the gross lenses to and fro, seeking outlet.He began:--MR CHAIRMAN, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: GREAT WAS MY ADMIRATION IN LISTENINGTO THE REMARKS ADDRESSED TO THE YOUTH OF IRELAND A MOMENT SINCE BY MYLEARNED FRIEND. IT SEEMED TO ME THAT I HAD BEEN TRANSPORTED INTO A COUNTRYFAR AWAY FROM THIS COUNTRY, INTO AN AGE REMOTE FROM THIS AGE, THAT I STOODIN ANCIENT EGYPT AND THAT I WAS LISTENING TO THE SPEECH OF SOME HIGHPRIESTOF THAT LAND ADDRESSED TO THE YOUTHFUL MOSES.His listeners held their cigarettes poised to hear, their smokesascending in frail stalks that flowered with his speech. And let ourcrooked smokes. Noble words coming. Look out. Could you try your hand atit yourself?--AND IT SEEMED TO ME THAT I HEARD THE VOICE OF THAT EGYPTIAN HIGHPRIESTRAISED IN A TONE OF LIKE HAUGHTINESS AND LIKE PRIDE. I HEARD HIS WORDS ANDTHEIR MEANING WAS REVEALED TO ME.    FROM THE FATHERSIt was revealed to me that those things are good which yet arecorrupted which neither if they were supremely good nor unless they weregood could be corrupted. Ah, curse you! Thats saint Augustine.--WHY WILL YOU JEWS NOT ACCEPT OUR CULTURE, OUR RELIGION AND OURLANGUAGE? YOU ARE A TRIBE OF NOMAD HERDSMEN: WE ARE A MIGHTY PEOPLE. YOUHAVE NO CITIES NOR NO WEALTH: OUR CITIES ARE HIVES OF HUMANITY AND OURGALLEYS, TRIREME AND  QUADRIREME, LADEN WITH ALL MANNER MERCHANDISE FURROWTHE WATERS OF THE KNOWN GLOBE. YOU HAVE BUT EMERGED FROM PRIMITIVECONDITIONS: WE HAVE A LITERATURE, A PRIESTHOOD, AN AGELONG HISTORY AND APOLITY.Nile.Child, man, effigy.By the Nilebank the babemaries kneel, cradle of bulrushes: a mansupple in combat: stonehorned, stonebearded, heart of stone.--YOU PRAY TO A LOCAL AND OBSCURE IDOL: OUR TEMPLES, MAJESTIC ANDMYSTERIOUS, ARE THE ABODES OF ISIS AND OSIRIS, OF HORUS AND AMMON RA.YOURS SERFDOM, AWE AND HUMBLENESS: OURS THUNDER AND THE SEAS. ISRAEL ISWEAK AND FEW ARE HER CHILDREN: EGYPT IS AN HOST AND TERRIBLE ARE HER ARMS. VAGRANTS AND DAYLABOURERS ARE YOU CALLED: THE WORLD TREMBLES AT OUR NAME.A dumb belch of hunger cleft his speech. He lifted his voice above itboldly:--BUT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, HAD THE YOUTHFUL MOSES LISTENED TO ANDACCEPTED THAT VIEW OF LIFE, HAD HE BOWED HIS HEAD AND BOWED HIS WILL ANDBOWED HIS SPIRIT BEFORE THAT ARROGANT ADMONITION HE WOULD NEVER HAVEBROUGHT THE CHOSEN PEOPLE OUT OF THEIR HOUSE OF BONDAGE, NOR FOLLOWED THEPILLAR OF THE CLOUD BY DAY. HE WOULD NEVER HAVE SPOKEN WITH THE ETERNALAMID LIGHTNINGS ON SINAIS MOUNTAINTOP NOR EVER HAVE COME DOWN WITH THELIGHT OF INSPIRATION SHINING IN HIS COUNTENANCE AND BEARING IN HIS ARMSTHE TABLES OF THE LAW, GRAVEN IN THE LANGUAGE OF THE OUTLAW.He ceased and looked at them, enjoying a silence.    OMINOUS--FOR HIM!J. J. OMolloy said not without regret:--And yet he died without having entered the land of promise.--A sudden--at--the--moment--though--from--lingering--illness--often--previously--expectorated--demise, Lenehan added. And with agreat future behind him.The troop of bare feet was heard rushing along the hallway andpattering up the staircase.--That is oratory, the professor said uncontradicted. Gone with the wind.Hosts at Mullaghmast and Tara of the kings. Miles of ears of porches.The tribunes words, howled and scattered to the four winds. A peoplesheltered within his voice. Dead noise. Akasic records of all that everanywhere wherever was. Love and laud him: me no more.I have money.--Gentlemen, Stephen said. As the next motion on the agenda paper may Isuggest that the house do now adjourn?--You take my breath away. It is not perchance a French compliment? MrOMadden Burke asked. Tis the hour, methinks, when the winejug,metaphorically speaking, is most grateful in Ye ancient hostelry.--That it be and hereby is resolutely resolved. All that are in favoursay ay, Lenehan announced. The contrary no. I declare it carried. To whichparticular boosing shed? ... My casting vote is: Mooneys!He led the way, admonishing:--We will sternly refuse to partake of strong waters, will we not? Yes,we will not. By no manner of means.Mr OMadden Burke, following close, said with an allys lunge of hisumbrella:--Lay on, Macduff!--Chip of the old block! the editor cried, clapping Stephen on theshoulder. Let us go. Where are those blasted keys?He fumbled in his pocket pulling out the crushed typesheets.--Foot and mouth. I know. Thatll be all right. Thatll go in. Where arethey? Thats all right.He thrust the sheets back and went into the inner office.    LET US HOPEJ. J. OMolloy, about to follow him in, said quietly to Stephen:--I hope you will live to see it published. Myles, one moment.He went into the inner office, closing the door behind him.--Come along, Stephen, the professor said. That is fine, isnt it? It hasthe prophetic vision. FUIT ILIUM! The sack of windy Troy. Kingdoms of thisworld. The masters of the Mediterranean are fellaheen today.The first newsboy came pattering down the stairs at their heels andrushed out into the street, yelling:--Racing special!Dublin. I have much, much to learn.They turned to the left along Abbey street.--I have a vision too, Stephen said.--Yes? the professor said, skipping to get into step. Crawford willfollow.Another newsboy shot past them, yelling as he ran:--Racing special!    DEAR DIRTY DUBLINDubliners.--Two Dublin vestals, Stephen said, elderly and pious, have lived fiftyand fiftythree years in Fumballys lane.--Where is that? the professor asked.--Off Blackpitts, Stephen said.Damp night reeking of hungry dough. Against the wall. Faceglistering tallow under her fustian shawl. Frantic hearts. Akasic records.Quicker, darlint!On now. Dare it. Let there be life.--They want to see the views of Dublin from the top of Nelsons pillar.They save up three and tenpence in a red tin letterbox moneybox. Theyshake out the threepenny bits and sixpences and coax out the pennies withthe blade of a knife. Two and three in silver and one and seven incoppers. They put on their bonnets and best clothes and take theirumbrellas for fear it may come on to rain.--Wise virgins, professor MacHugh said.    LIFE ON THE RAW--They buy one and fourpenceworth of brawn and four slices of panloaf atthe north city diningrooms in Marlborough street from Miss Kate Collins,proprietress ... They purchase four and twenty ripe plums from a girl atthe foot of Nelsons pillar to take off the thirst of the brawn. They givetwo threepenny bits to the gentleman at the turnstile and begin to waddleslowly up the winding staircase, grunting, encouraging each other, afraidof the dark, panting, one asking the other have you the brawn, praisingGod and the Blessed Virgin, threatening to come down, peeping at theairslits. Glory be to God. They had no idea it was that high.Their names are Anne Kearns and Florence MacCabe. Anne Kearnshas the lumbago for which she rubs on Lourdes water, given her by a ladywho got a bottleful from a passionist father. Florence MacCabe takes acrubeen and a bottle of double X for supper every Saturday.--Antithesis, the professor said nodding twice. Vestal virgins. I can seethem. Whats keeping our friend?He turned.A bevy of scampering newsboys rushed down the steps, scattering inall directions, yelling, their white papers fluttering. Hard after themMyles Crawford appeared on the steps, his hat aureoling his scarlet face,talking with J. J. OMolloy.--Come along, the professor cried, waving his arm.He set off again to walk by Stephens side.    RETURN OF BLOOM--Yes, he said. I see them.Mr Bloom, breathless, caught in a whirl of wild newsboys near theoffices of the IRISH CATHOLIC AND DUBLIN PENNY JOURNAL, called:--Mr Crawford! A moment!--TELEGRAPH! Racing special!--What is it? Myles Crawford said, falling back a pace.A newsboy cried in Mr Blooms face:--Terrible tragedy in Rathmines! A child bit by a bellows!    INTERVIEW WITH THE EDITOR--Just this ad, Mr Bloom said, pushing through towards the steps,puffing, and taking the cutting from his pocket. I spoke with Mr Keyesjust now. Hell give a renewal for two months, he says. After hell see.But he wants a par to call attention in the TELEGRAPH too, the Saturdaypink. And he wants it copied if its not too late I told councillorNannetti from the KILKENNY PEOPLE. I can have access to it in the nationallibrary. House of keys, dont you see? His name is Keyes. Its a play onthe name. But he practically promised hed give the renewal. But he wantsjust a little puff. What will I tell him, Mr Crawford?    K.M.A.--Will you tell him he can kiss my arse? Myles Crawford said throwing outhis arm for emphasis. Tell him that straight from the stable.A bit nervy. Look out for squalls. All off for a drink. Arm in arm.Lenehans yachting cap on the cadge beyond. Usual blarney. Wonder isthat young Dedalus the moving spirit. Has a good pair of boots on himtoday. Last time I saw him he had his heels on view. Been walking in mucksomewhere. Careless chap. What was he doing in Irishtown?--Well, Mr Bloom said, his eyes returning, if I can get the design Isuppose its worth a short par. Hed give the ad, I think. Ill tellhim ...    K.M.R.I.A.--He can kiss my royal Irish arse, Myles Crawford cried loudly over hisshoulder. Any time he likes, tell him.While Mr Bloom stood weighing the point and about to smile he strodeon jerkily.    RAISING THE WIND--NULLA BONA, Jack, he said, raising his hand to his chin. Im up tohere. Ive been through the hoop myself. I was looking for a fellow toback a bill for me no later than last week. Sorry, Jack. You must take thewill for the deed. With a heart and a half if I could raise the windanyhow.J. J. OMolloy pulled a long face and walked on silently. They caughtup on the others and walked abreast.--When they have eaten the brawn and the bread and wiped their twentyfingers in the paper the bread was wrapped in they go nearer to therailings.--Something for you, the professor explained to Myles Crawford. Two oldDublin women on the top of Nelsons pillar.    SOME COLUMN!--    THATS WHAT WADDLER ONE SAID--Thats new, Myles Crawford said. Thats copy. Out for the waxiesDargle. Two old trickies, what?--But they are afraid the pillar will fall, Stephen went on. They see theroofs and argue about where the different churches are: Rathmines bluedome, Adam and Eves, saint Laurence OTooles. But it makes them giddy tolook so they pull up their skirts ...    THOSE SLIGHTLY RAMBUNCTIOUS FEMALES--Easy all, Myles Crawford said. No poetic licence. Were in thearchdiocese here.--And settle down on their striped petticoats, peering up at the statueof the onehandled adulterer.--Onehandled adulterer! the professor cried. I like that. I see the idea.I see what you mean.    DAMES DONATE DUBLINS CITS SPEEDPILLS    VELOCITOUS AEROLITHS, BELIEF--It gives them a crick in their necks, Stephen said, and they are tootired to look up or down or to speak. They put the bag of plums betweenthem and eat the plums out of it, one after another, wiping off with theirhandkerchiefs the plumjuice that dribbles out of their mouths and spittingthe plumstones slowly out between the railings.He gave a sudden loud young laugh as a close. Lenehan and Mr OMaddenBurke, hearing, turned, beckoned and led on across towards Mooneys.--Finished? Myles Crawford said. So long as they do no worse.    SOPHIST WALLOPS HAUGHTY HELEN SQUARE ON    PROBOSCIS. SPARTANS GNASH MOLARS. ITHACANS    VOW PEN IS CHAMP.--You remind me of Antisthenes, the professor said, a disciple ofGorgias, the sophist. It is said of him that none could tell if he werebitterer against others or against himself. He was the son of a noble anda bondwoman. And he wrote a book in which he took away the palm of beautyfrom Argive Helen and handed it to poor Penelope.Poor Penelope. Penelope Rich.They made ready to cross OConnell street.    HELLO THERE, CENTRAL!At various points along the eight lines tramcars with motionlesstrolleys stood in their tracks, bound for or from Rathmines, Rathfarnham,Blackrock, Kingstown and Dalkey, Sandymount Green, Ringsend andSandymount Tower, Donnybrook, Palmerston Park and Upper Rathmines,all still, becalmed in short circuit. Hackney cars, cabs, deliverywaggons, mailvans, private broughams, aerated mineral water floats withrattling crates of bottles, rattled, rolled, horsedrawn, rapidly.    WHAT?--AND LIKEWISE--WHERE?--But what do you call it? Myles Crawford asked. Where did they get theplums?    VIRGILIAN, SAYS PEDAGOGUE.    SOPHOMORE PLUMPS FOR OLD MAN MOSES.--Call it, wait, the professor said, opening his long lips wide toreflect. Call it, let me see. Call it: DEUS NOBIS HAEC OTIA FECIT.--No, Stephen said. I call it A PISGAH SIGHT OF PALESTINE OR THE PARABLEOF THE PLUMS.--I see, the professor said.He laughed richly.--I see, he said again with new pleasure. Moses and the promised land. Wegave him that idea, he added to J. J. OMolloy.    HORATIO IS CYNOSURE THIS FAIR JUNE DAYJ. J. OMolloy sent a weary sidelong glance towards the statue andheld his peace.--I see, the professor said.He halted on sir John Grays pavement island and peered aloft at Nelsonthrough the meshes of his wry smile.    DIMINISHED DIGITS PROVE TOO TITILLATING    FOR FRISKY FRUMPS. ANNE WIMBLES, FLO    WANGLES--YET CAN YOU BLAME THEM?--Onehandled adulterer, he said smiling grimly. That tickles me, I mustsay.--Tickled the old ones too, Myles Crawford said, if the God Almightystruth was known.    * * * * * * *Pineapple rock, lemon platt, butter scotch. A sugarsticky girlshovelling scoopfuls of creams for a christian brother. Some school treat.Bad for their tummies. Lozenge and comfit manufacturer to His Majestythe King. God. Save. Our. Sitting on his throne sucking red jujubes white.A sombre Y.M.C.A. young man, watchful among the warm sweetfumes of Graham Lemons, placed a throwaway in a hand of Mr Bloom.Heart to heart talks.Bloo ... Me? No.Blood of the Lamb.His slow feet walked him riverward, reading. Are you saved? All arewashed in the blood of the lamb. God wants blood victim. Birth, hymen,martyr, war, foundation of a building, sacrifice, kidney burntoffering,druids altars. Elijah is coming. Dr John Alexander Dowie restorer of thechurch in Zion is coming.    IS COMING! IS COMING!! IS COMING!!!    ALL HEARTILY WELCOME.Paying game. Torry and Alexander last year. Polygamy. His wife willput the stopper on that. Where was that ad some Birmingham firm theluminous crucifix. Our Saviour. Wake up in the dead of night and see himon the wall, hanging. Peppers ghost idea. Iron nails ran in.Phosphorus it must be done with. If you leave a bit of codfish forinstance. I could see the bluey silver over it. Night I went down to thepantry in the kitchen. Dont like all the smells in it waiting to rushout. What was it she wanted? The Malaga raisins. Thinking of Spain. BeforeRudy was born. The phosphorescence, that bluey greeny. Very good for thebrain.From Butlers monument house corner he glanced along Bachelorswalk. Dedalus daughter there still outside Dillons auctionrooms. Must beselling off some old furniture. Knew her eyes at once from the father.Lobbing about waiting for him. Home always breaks up when the mothergoes. Fifteen children he had. Birth every year almost. Thats in theirtheology or the priest wont give the poor woman the confession, theabsolution. Increase and multiply. Did you ever hear such an idea? Eat youout of house and home. No families themselves to feed. Living on the fatof the land. Their butteries and larders. Id like to see them do theblack fast Yom Kippur. Crossbuns. One meal and a collation for fear hedcollapse on the altar. A housekeeper of one of those fellows if you couldpick it out of her. Never pick it out of her. Like getting l.s.d. out ofhim. Does himself well. No guests. All for number one. Watching his water.Bring your own bread and butter. His reverence: mums the word.Good Lord, that poor childs dress is in flitters. Underfed she lookstoo. Potatoes and marge, marge and potatoes. Its after they feel it.Proof of the pudding. Undermines the constitution.As he set foot on OConnell bridge a puffball of smoke plumed upfrom the parapet. Brewery barge with export stout. England. Sea air soursit, I heard. Be interesting some day get a pass through Hancock to see thebrewery. Regular world in itself. Vats of porter wonderful. Rats get intoo. Drink themselves bloated as big as a collie floating. Dead drunk onthe porter. Drink till they puke again like christians. Imagine drinkingthat! Rats: vats. Well, of course, if we knew all the things.Looking down he saw flapping strongly, wheeling between the gauntquaywalls, gulls. Rough weather outside. If I threw myself down?Reuben Js son must have swallowed a good bellyful of that sewage. One andeightpence too much. Hhhhm. Its the droll way he comes out with thethings. Knows how to tell a story too.They wheeled lower. Looking for grub. Wait.He threw down among them a crumpled paper ball. Elijah thirtytwofeet per sec is com. Not a bit. The ball bobbed unheeded on the wake ofswells, floated under by the bridgepiers. Not such damn fools. Also theday I threw that stale cake out of the Erins King picked it up in thewake fifty yards astern. Live by their wits. They wheeled, flapping.    THE HUNGRY FAMISHED GULL    FLAPS OER THE WATERS DULL.That is how poets write, the similar sounds. But then Shakespeare hasno rhymes: blank verse. The flow of the language it is. The thoughts.Solemn.    HAMLET, I AM THY FATHERS SPIRIT    DOOMED FOR A CERTAIN TIME TO WALK THE EARTH.--Two apples a penny! Two for a penny!His gaze passed over the glazed apples serried on her stand.Australians they must be this time of year. Shiny peels: polishes them upwith a rag or a handkerchief.Wait. Those poor birds.He halted again and bought from the old applewoman two Banburycakes for a penny and broke the brittle paste and threw its fragments downinto the Liffey. See that? The gulls swooped silently, two, then all fromtheir heights, pouncing on prey. Gone. Every morsel.Aware of their greed and cunning he shook the powdery crumb from hishands. They never expected that. Manna. Live on fish, fishy fleshthey have, all seabirds, gulls, seagoose. Swans from Anna Liffey swimdown here sometimes to preen themselves. No accounting for tastes.Wonder what kind is swanmeat. Robinson Crusoe had to live on them.They wheeled flapping weakly. Im not going to throw any more.Penny quite enough. Lot of thanks I get. Not even a caw. They spread footand mouth disease too. If you cram a turkey say on chestnutmeal it tasteslike that. Eat pig like pig. But then why is it that saltwater fish arenot salty? How is that?His eyes sought answer from the river and saw a rowboat rock at anchoron the treacly swells lazily its plastered board.KINOS/-TROUSERSGood idea that. Wonder if he pays rent to the corporation. How canyou own water really? Its always flowing in a stream, never the same,which in the stream of life we trace. Because life is a stream. All kindsof places are good for ads. That quack doctor for the clap used to bestuck up in all the greenhouses. Never see it now. Strictly confidential.Dr Hy Franks. Didnt cost him a red like Maginni the dancing master selfadvertisement. Got fellows to stick them up or stick them up himself forthat matter on the q. t. running in to loosen a button. Flybynight. Justthe place too. POST NO BILLS. POST  PILLS. Some chap with a doseburning him.If he ...?O!Eh?No ... No.No, no. I dont believe it. He wouldnt surely?No, no.Mr Bloom moved forward, raising his troubled eyes. Think no more aboutthat. After one. Timeball on the ballastoffice is down. Dunsink time.Fascinating little book that is of sir Robert Balls. Parallax. I neverexactly understood. Theres a priest. Could ask him. Par its Greek:parallel, parallax. Met him pike hoses she called it till I told her aboutthe transmigration. O rocks!Mr Bloom smiled O rocks at two windows of the ballastoffice. Shesright after all. Only big words for ordinary things on account of thesound. Shes not exactly witty. Can be rude too. Blurt out what I wasthinking. Still, I dont know. She used to say Ben Dollard had a basebarreltone voice. He has legs like barrels and youd think he was singinginto a barrel. Now, isnt that wit. They used to call him big Ben. Nothalf as witty as calling him base barreltone. Appetite like an albatross.Get outside of a baron of beef. Powerful man he was at stowing away numberone Bass. Barrel of Bass. See? It all works out. A procession of whitesmocked sandwichmen marched slowly towardshim along the gutter, scarlet sashes across their boards. Bargains. Likethat priest they are this morning: we have sinned: we have suffered. Heread the scarlet letters on their five tall white hats: H. E. L. Y. S.Wisdom Helys. Y lagging behind drew a chunk of bread from under hisforeboard, crammed it into his mouth and munched as he walked. Our staplefood. Three bob a day, walking along the gutters, street after street.Just keep skin and bone together, bread and skilly. They are not Boyl:no, M Glades men. Doesnt bring in any business either. I suggestedto him about a transparent showcart with two smart girls sittinginside writing letters, copybooks, envelopes, blottingpaper. I bet thatwould have caught on. Smart girls writing something catch the eye at once.Everyone dying to know what shes writing. Get twenty of them round youif you stare at nothing. Have a finger in the pie. Women too. Curiosity.Pillar of salt. Wouldnt have it of course because he didnt thinkof it himself first. Or the inkbottle I suggested with a false stainof black celluloid. His ideas for ads like Plumtrees potted underthe obituaries, cold meat department. You cant lick em. What? Ourenvelopes. Hello, Jones, where are you going? Cant stop, Robinson,I am hastening to purchase the only reliable inkeraser KANSELL,sold by Helys Ltd,  Dame street. Well out of that ruck I am.Devil of a job it was collecting accounts of those convents. Tranquillaconvent. That was a nice nun there, really sweet face. Wimple suited hersmall head. Sister? Sister? I am sure she was crossed in love by her eyes.Very hard to bargain with that sort of a woman. I disturbed her at herdevotions that morning. But glad to communicate with the outside world.Our great day, she said. Feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel. Sweet nametoo: caramel. She knew I, I think she knew by the way she. If she hadmarried she would have changed. I suppose they really were short ofmoney. Fried everything in the best butter all the same. No lard for them.My hearts broke eating dripping. They like buttering themselves in andout. Molly tasting it, her veil up. Sister? Pat Claffey, the pawnbrokersdaughter. It was a nun they say invented barbed wire.He crossed Westmoreland street when apostrophe S had plodded by.Rover cycleshop. Those races are on today. How long ago is that? YearPhil Gilligan died. We were in Lombard street west. Wait: was in Thoms.Got the job in Wisdom Helys year we married. Six years. Ten years ago:ninetyfour he died yes thats right the big fire at Arnotts. Val Dillonwas lord mayor. The Glencree dinner. Alderman Robert OReilly emptying theport into his soup before the flag fell. Bobbob lapping it for the inneralderman. Couldnt hear what the band played. For what we have alreadyreceived may the Lord make us. Milly was a kiddy then. Molly had thatelephantgrey dress with the braided frogs. Mantailored with selfcoveredbuttons. She didnt like it because I sprained my ankle first day she worechoir picnic at the Sugarloaf. As if that. Old Goodwins tall hat done upwith some sticky stuff. Flies picnic too. Never put a dress on her backlike it. Fitted her like a glove, shoulders and hips. Just beginning toplump it out well. Rabbitpie we had that day. People looking after her.Happy. Happier then. Snug little room that was with the redwallpaper. Dockrells, one and ninepence a dozen. Millys tubbing night.American soap I bought: elderflower. Cosy smell of her bathwater. Funnyshe looked soaped all over. Shapely too. Now photography. Poor papasdaguerreotype atelier he told me of. Hereditary taste.He walked along the curbstone.Stream of life. What was the name of that priestylooking chap wasalways squinting in when he passed? Weak eyes, woman. Stopped inCitrons saint Kevins parade. Pen something. Pendennis? My memory isgetting. Pen ...? Of course its years ago. Noise of the trams probably.Well, if he couldnt remember the dayfathers name that he sees every day.Bartell dArcy was the tenor, just coming out then. Seeing her homeafter practice. Conceited fellow with his waxedup moustache. Gave her thatsong WINDS THAT BLOW FROM THE SOUTH.Windy night that was I went to fetch her there was that lodge meetingon about those lottery tickets after Goodwins concert in the supperroomor oakroom of the Mansion house. He and I behind. Sheet of her music blewout of my hand against the High school railings. Lucky it didnt. Thinglike that spoils the effect of a night for her. Professor Goodwin linkingher in front. Shaky on his pins, poor old sot. His farewell concerts.Positively last appearance on any stage. May be for months and may be fornever. Remember her laughing at the wind, her blizzard collar up. Cornerof Harcourt road remember that gust. Brrfoo! Blew up all her skirts andher boa nearly smothered old Goodwin. She did get flushed in the wind.Remember when we got home raking up the fire and frying up those piecesof lap of mutton for her supper with the Chutney sauce she liked. And themulled rum. Could see her in the bedroom from the hearth unclamping thebusk of her stays: white.Swish and soft flop her stays made on the bed. Always warm fromher. Always liked to let her self out. Sitting there after till near twotaking out her hairpins. Milly tucked up in beddyhouse. Happy. Happy.That was the night ...--O, Mr Bloom, how do you do?--O, how do you do, Mrs Breen?--No use complaining. How is Molly those times? Havent seen her for ages.--In the pink, Mr Bloom said gaily. Milly has a position down inMullingar, you know.--Go away! Isnt that grand for her?--Yes. In a photographers there. Getting on like a house on fire. How areall your charges?--All on the bakers list, Mrs Breen said.How many has she? No other in sight.--Youre in black, I see. You have no ...--No, Mr Bloom said. I have just come from a funeral.Going to crop up all day, I foresee. Whos dead, when and what didhe die of? Turn up like a bad penny.--O, dear me, Mrs Breen said. I hope it wasnt any near relation.May as well get her sympathy.--Dignam, Mr Bloom said. An old friend of mine. He died quite suddenly,poor fellow. Heart trouble, I believe. Funeral was this morning.    YOUR FUNERALS TOMORROW    WHILE YOURE COMING THROUGH THE RYE.    DIDDLEDIDDLE DUMDUM    DIDDLEDIDDLE ...--Sad to lose the old friends, Mrs Breens womaneyes said melancholily.Now thats quite enough about that. Just: quietly: husband.--And your lord and master?Mrs Breen turned up her two large eyes. Hasnt lost them anyhow.--O, dont be talking! she said. Hes a caution to rattlesnakes. Hes inthere now with his lawbooks finding out the law of libel. He has meheartscalded. Wait till I show you.Hot mockturtle vapour and steam of newbaked jampuffs rolypolypoured out from Harrisons. The heavy noonreek tickled the top of MrBlooms gullet. Want to make good pastry, butter, best flour, Demerarasugar, or theyd taste it with the hot tea. Or is it from her? A barefootarab stood over the grating, breathing in the fumes. Deaden the gnaw ofhunger that way. Pleasure or pain is it? Penny dinner. Knife and forkchained to the table.Opening her handbag, chipped leather. Hatpin: ought to have aguard on those things. Stick it in a chaps eye in the tram. Rummaging.Open. Money. Please take one. Devils if they lose sixpence. Raise Cain.Husband barging. Wheres the ten shillings I gave you on Monday? Areyou feeding your little brothers family? Soiled handkerchief:medicinebottle. Pastille that was fell. What is she? ...--There must be a new moon out, she said. Hes always bad then. Do youknow what he did last night?Her hand ceased to rummage. Her eyes fixed themselves on him, widein alarm, yet smiling.--What? Mr Bloom asked.Let her speak. Look straight in her eyes. I believe you. Trust me.--Woke me up in the night, she said. Dream he had, a nightmare.Indiges.--Said the ace of spades was walking up the stairs.--The ace of spades! Mr Bloom said.She took a folded postcard from her handbag.--Read that, she said. He got it this morning.--What is it? Mr Bloom asked, taking the card. U.P.?--U.P.: up, she said. Someone taking a rise out of him. Its a great shamefor them whoever he is.--Indeed it is, Mr Bloom said.She took back the card, sighing.--And now hes going round to Mr Mentons office. Hes going to take anaction for ten thousand pounds, he says.She folded the card into her untidy bag and snapped the catch.Same blue serge dress she had two years ago, the nap bleaching. Seenits best days. Wispish hair over her ears. And that dowdy toque: three oldgrapes to take the harm out of it. Shabby genteel. She used to be a tastydresser. Lines round her mouth. Only a year or so older than Molly.See the eye that woman gave her, passing. Cruel. The unfair sex.He looked still at her, holding back behind his look his discontent.Pungent mockturtle oxtail mulligatawny. Im hungry too. Flakes of pastryon the gusset of her dress: daub of sugary flour stuck to her cheek.Rhubarb tart with liberal fillings, rich fruit interior. Josie Powell thatwas. In Luke Doyles long ago. Dolphins Barn, the charades. U.P.: up.Change the subject.--Do you ever see anything of Mrs Beaufoy? Mr Bloom asked.--Mina Purefoy? she said.Philip Beaufoy I was thinking. Playgoers Club. Matcham oftenthinks of the masterstroke. Did I pull the chain? Yes. The last act.--Yes.--I just called to ask on the way in is she over it. Shes in the lying-inhospital in Holles street. Dr Horne got her in. Shes three days bad now.--O, Mr Bloom said. Im sorry to hear that.--Yes, Mrs Breen said. And a houseful of kids at home. Its a very stiffbirth, the nurse told me.---O, Mr Bloom said.His heavy pitying gaze absorbed her news. His tongue clacked incompassion. Dth! Dth!--Im sorry to hear that, he said. Poor thing! Three days! Thats terriblefor her.Mrs Breen nodded.--She was taken bad on the Tuesday ...Mr Bloom touched her funnybone gently, warning her:--Mind! Let this man pass.A bony form strode along the curbstone from the river staring with arapt gaze into the sunlight through a heavystringed glass. Tight as askullpiece a tiny hat gripped his head. From his arm a folded dustcoat, astick and an umbrella dangled to his stride.--Watch him, Mr Bloom said. He always walks outside the lampposts. Watch!--Who is he if its a fair question? Mrs Breen asked. Is he dotty?--His name is Cashel Boyle OConnor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell, MrBloom said smiling. Watch!--He has enough of them, she said. Denis will be like that one of thesedays.She broke off suddenly.--There he is, she said. I must go after him. Goodbye. Remember me toMolly, wont you?--I will, Mr Bloom said.He watched her dodge through passers towards the shopfronts. DenisBreen in skimpy frockcoat and blue canvas shoes shuffled out of Harrisonshugging two heavy tomes to his ribs. Blown in from the bay. Like oldtimes. He suffered her to overtake him without surprise and thrust hisdull grey beard towards her, his loose jaw wagging as he spoke earnestly.Meshuggah. Off his chump.Mr Bloom walked on again easily, seeing ahead of him in sunlight thetight skullpiece, the dangling stickumbrelladustcoat. Going the two days.Watch him!  Out he goes again. One way of getting on in the world. Andthat other old mosey lunatic in those duds. Hard time she must have withhim.U.P.: up. Ill take my oath thats Alf Bergan or Richie Goulding.Wrote it for a lark in the Scotch house I bet anything. Round to Mentonsoffice. His oyster eyes staring at the postcard. Be a feast for the gods.He passed the IRISH TIMES. There might be other answers Iying there.Like to answer them all. Good system for criminals. Code. At their lunchnow. Clerk with the glasses there doesnt know me. O, leave them there tosimmer. Enough bother wading through fortyfour of them. Wanted, smartlady typist to aid gentleman in literary work. I called you naughtydarling because I do not like that other world. Please tell me what is themeaning. Please tell me what perfume does your wife. Tell me who made theworld. The way they spring those questions on you. And the other oneLizzie Twigg. My literary efforts have had the good fortune to meet withthe approval of the eminent poet A. E. (Mr Geo. Russell). No time to doher hair drinking sloppy tea with a book of poetry.Best paper by long chalks for a small ad. Got the provinces now.Cook and general, exc. cuisine, housemaid kept. Wanted live man for spiritcounter. Resp. girl (R.C.) wishes to hear of post in fruit or pork shop.James Carlisle made that. Six and a half per cent dividend. Made a bigdeal on Coatess shares. Ca canny. Cunning old Scotch hunks. All thetoady news. Our gracious and popular vicereine. Bought the IRISH FIELDnow. Lady Mountcashel has quite recovered after her confinement and rodeout with the Ward Union staghounds at the enlargement yesterday atRathoath. Uneatable fox. Pothunters too. Fear injects juices make ittender enough for them. Riding astride. Sit her horse like a man.Weightcarrying huntress. No sidesaddle or pillion for her, not for Joe.First to the meet and in at the death. Strong as a brood mare some ofthose horsey women. Swagger around livery stables. Toss off a glass ofbrandy neat while youd say knife. That one at the Grosvenor this morning.Up with her on the car: wishswish. Stonewall or fivebarred gateput her mount to it. Think that pugnosed driver did it out of spite.Who is this she was like? O yes! Mrs Miriam Dandrade that sold meher old wraps and black underclothes in the Shelbourne hotel.Divorced Spanish American. Didnt take a feather out of hermy handling them. As if I was her clotheshorse. Saw her in theviceregal party when Stubbs the park ranger got me in with Whelan of theExpress. Scavenging what the quality left. High tea. Mayonnaise I pouredon the plums thinking it was custard. Her ears ought to have tingled for afew weeks after. Want to be a bull for her. Born courtesan. No nurserywork for her, thanks.Poor Mrs Purefoy! Methodist husband. Method in his madness.Saffron bun and milk and soda lunch in the educational dairy. Y. M. C. A.Eating with a stopwatch, thirtytwo chews to the minute. And still hismuttonchop whiskers grew. Supposed to be well connected. Theodorescousin in Dublin Castle. One tony relative in every family. Hardy annualshe presents her with. Saw him out at the Three Jolly Topers marching alongbareheaded and his eldest boy carrying one in a marketnet. The squallers.Poor thing! Then having to give the breast year after year all hours ofthe night. Selfish those t.ts are. Dog in the manger. Only one lump ofsugar in my tea, if you please.He stood at Fleet street crossing. Luncheon interval. A sixpenny atRowes? Must look up that ad in the national library. An eightpenny in theBurton. Better. On my way.He walked on past Boltons Westmoreland house. Tea. Tea. Tea. I forgotto tap Tom Kernan.Sss. Dth, dth, dth! Three days imagine groaning on a bed with avinegared handkerchief round her forehead, her belly swollen out. Phew!Dreadful simply! Childs head too big: forceps. Doubled up inside hertrying to butt its way out blindly, groping for the way out. Kill me thatwould. Lucky Molly got over hers lightly. They ought to invent somethingto stop that. Life with hard labour. Twilight sleep idea: queen Victoriawas given that. Nine she had. A good layer. Old woman that lived in a shoeshe had so many children. Suppose he was consumptive. Time someone thoughtabout it instead of gassing about the what was it the pensive bosom of thesilver effulgence. Flapdoodle to feed fools on. They could easily have bigestablishments whole thing quite painless out of all the taxes give everychild born five quid at compound interest up to twentyone five per cent isa hundred shillings and five tiresome pounds multiply by twenty decimalsystem encourage people to put by money save hundred and ten and a bittwentyone years want to work it out on paper come to a tidy sum more thanyou think.Not stillborn of course. They are not even registered. Trouble fornothing.Funny sight two of them together, their bellies out. Molly and MrsMoisel. Mothers meeting. Phthisis retires for the time being, thenreturns. How flat they look all of a sudden after. Peaceful eyes.Weight off their mind. Old Mrs Thornton was a jolly old soul. Allmy babies, she said. The spoon of pap in her mouth before she fedthem. O, thats nyumnyum. Got her hand crushed by old Tom Walls son.His first bow to the public. Head like a prize pumpkin. Snuffy Dr Murren.People knocking them up at all hours. For God sake, doctor. Wife inher throes. Then keep them waiting months for their fee. To attendanceon your wife. No gratitude in people. Humane doctors, most of them.Before the huge high door of the Irish house of parliament a flock ofpigeons flew. Their little frolic after meals. Who will we do it on? Ipick the fellow in black. Here goes. Heres good luck. Must be thrillingfrom the air. Apjohn, myself and Owen Goldberg up in the trees near Goosegreen playing the monkeys. Mackerel they called me.A squad of constables debouched from College street, marching inIndian file. Goosestep. Foodheated faces, sweating helmets, patting theirtruncheons. After their feed with a good load of fat soup under theirbelts. Policemans lot is oft a happy one. They split up in groups andscattered, saluting, towards their beats. Let out to graze. Best moment toattack one in pudding time. A punch in his dinner. A squad of others,marching irregularly, rounded Trinity railings making for the station.Bound for their troughs. Prepare to receive cavalry. Prepare to receivesoup.He crossed under Tommy Moores roguish finger. They did right toput him up over a urinal: meeting of the waters. Ought to be places forwomen. Running into cakeshops. Settle my hat straight. THERE IS NOT INTHIS WIDE WORLD A VALLEE. Great song of Julia Morkans. Kept her voice upto the very last. Pupil of Michael Balfes, wasnt she?He gazed after the last broad tunic. Nasty customers to tackle. JackPower could a tale unfold: father a G man. If a fellow gave them troublebeing lagged they let him have it hot and heavy in the bridewell. Cantblame them after all with the job they have especially the young hornies.That horsepoliceman the day Joe Chamberlain was given his degree inTrinity he got a run for his money. My word he did! His horses hoofsclattering after us down Abbey street. Lucky I had the presence of mind todive into Mannings or I was souped. He did come a wallop, by George.Must have cracked his skull on the cobblestones. I oughtnt to have gotmyself swept along with those medicals. And the Trinity jibs in theirmortarboards. Looking for trouble. Still I got to know that young Dixonwho dressed that sting for me in the Mater and now hes in Holles streetwhere Mrs Purefoy. Wheels within wheels. Police whistle in my ears still.All skedaddled. Why he fixed on me. Give me in charge. Right here itbegan.--Up the Boers!--Three cheers for De Wet!--Well hang Joe Chamberlain on a sourapple tree.Silly billies: mob of young cubs yelling their guts out. Vinegar hill.The Butter exchange band. Few years time half of them magistrates andcivil servants. War comes on: into the army helterskelter: same fellowsused to. Whether on the scaffold high.Never know who youre talking to. Corny Kelleher he has HarveyDuff in his eye. Like that Peter or Denis or James Carey that blew thegaff on the invincibles. Member of the corporation too. Egging raw youthson to get in the know all the time drawing secret service pay from thecastle. Drop him like a hot potato. Why those plainclothes men are alwayscourting slaveys. Easily twig a man used to uniform. Squarepushing upagainst a backdoor. Maul her a bit. Then the next thing on the menu. Andwho is the gentleman does be visiting there? Was the young master sayinganything? Peeping Tom through the keyhole. Decoy duck. Hotblooded youngstudent fooling round her fat arms ironing.--Are those yours, Mary?--I dont wear such things ... Stop or Ill tell the missus on you.Out half the night.--There are great times coming, Mary. Wait till you see.--Ah, gelong with your great times coming.Barmaids too. Tobaccoshopgirls.James Stephens idea was the best. He knew them. Circles of ten sothat a fellow couldnt round on more than his own ring. Sinn Fein. Backout you get the knife. Hidden hand. Stay in. The firing squad. Turnkeysdaughter got him out of Richmond, off from Lusk. Putting up in theBuckingham Palace hotel under their very noses. Garibaldi.You must have a certain fascination: Parnell. Arthur Griffith is asquareheaded fellow but he has no go in him for the mob. Or gas about ourlovely land. Gammon and spinach. Dublin Bakery Companys tearoom.Debating societies. That republicanism is the best form of government.That the language question should take precedence of the economicquestion. Have your daughters inveigling them to your house. Stuff themup with meat and drink. Michaelmas goose. Heres a good lump of thymeseasoning under the apron for you. Have another quart of goosegreasebefore it gets too cold. Halffed enthusiasts. Penny roll and a walk withthe band. No grace for the carver. The thought that the other chap paysbest sauce in the world. Make themselves thoroughly at home. Show us overthose apricots, meaning peaches. The not far distant day. Homerule sunrising up in the northwest.His smile faded as he walked, a heavy cloud hiding the sun slowly,shadowing Trinitys surly front. Trams passed one another, ingoing,outgoing, clanging. Useless words. Things go on same, day after day:squads of police marching out, back: trams in, out. Those two looniesmooching about. Dignam carted off. Mina Purefoy swollen belly on a bedgroaning to have a child tugged out of her. One born every secondsomewhere. Other dying every second. Since I fed the birds five minutes.Three hundred kicked the bucket. Other three hundred born, washing theblood off, all are washed in the blood of the lamb, bawling maaaaaa.Cityful passing away, other cityful coming, passing away too: othercoming on, passing on. Houses, lines of houses, streets, miles ofpavements, piledup bricks, stones. Changing hands. This owner, that.Landlord never dies they say. Other steps into his shoes when he getshis notice to quit. They buy the place up with gold and still theyhave all the gold. Swindle in it somewhere. Piled up in cities, wornaway age after age. Pyramids in sand. Built on bread and onions.Slaves Chinese wall. Babylon. Big stones left. Round towers. Rest rubble,sprawling suburbs, jerrybuilt. Kerwans mushroom houses built of breeze.Shelter, for the night.No-one is anything.This is the very worst hour of the day. Vitality. Dull, gloomy: hatethis hour. Feel as if I had been eaten and spewed.Provosts house. The reverend Dr Salmon: tinned salmon. Welltinned in there. Like a mortuary chapel. Wouldnt live in it if they paidme. Hope they have liver and bacon today. Nature abhors a vacuum.The sun freed itself slowly and lit glints of light among the silverwareopposite in Walter Sextons window by which John Howard Parnell passed,unseeing.There he is: the brother. Image of him. Haunting face. Now thats acoincidence. Course hundreds of times you think of a person and dontmeet him. Like a man walking in his sleep. No-one knows him. Must be acorporation meeting today. They say he never put on the city marshalsuniform since he got the job. Charley Kavanagh used to come out on hishigh horse, cocked hat, puffed, powdered and shaved. Look at thewoebegone walk of him. Eaten a bad egg. Poached eyes on ghost. I have apain. Great mans brother: his brothers brother. Hed look nice on thecity charger. Drop into the D.B.C. probably for his coffee, play chessthere. His brother used men as pawns. Let them all go to pot. Afraid topass a remark on him. Freeze them up with that eye of his. Thats thefascination: the name. All a bit touched. Mad Fanny and his other sisterMrs Dickinson driving about with scarlet harness. Bolt upright lik surgeon MArdle. Still David Sheehy beat him for south Meath.Apply for the Chiltern Hundreds and retire into public life. The patriotsbanquet. Eating orangepeels in the park. Simon Dedalus said when they puthim in parliament that Parnell would come back from the grave and leadhim out of the house of commons by the arm.--Of the twoheaded octopus, one of whose heads is the head upon whichthe ends of the world have forgotten to come while the other speaks with aScotch accent. The tentacles ...They passed from behind Mr Bloom along the curbstone. Beard andbicycle. Young woman.And there he is too. Now thats really a coincidence: second time.Coming events cast their shadows before. With the approval of the eminentpoet, Mr Geo. Russell. That might be Lizzie Twigg with him. A. E.: whatdoes that mean? Initials perhaps. Albert Edward, Arthur Edmund,Alphonsus Eb Ed El Esquire. What was he saying? The ends of the worldwith a Scotch accent. Tentacles: octopus. Something occult: symbolism.Holding forth. Shes taking it all in. Not saying a word. To aid gentlemanin literary work.His eyes followed the high figure in homespun, beard and bicycle, alistening woman at his side. Coming from the vegetarian. Onlyweggebobbles and fruit. Dont eat a beefsteak. If you do the eyes of thatcow will pursue you through all eternity. They say its healthier.Windandwatery though. Tried it. Keep you on the run all day. Bad as abloater. Dreams all night. Why do they call that thing they gave menutsteak? Nutarians. Fruitarians. To give you the idea you are eatingrumpsteak. Absurd. Salty too. They cook in soda. Keep you sitting by thetap all night.Her stockings are loose over her ankles. I detest that: so tasteless.Those literary etherial people they are all. Dreamy, cloudy, symbolistic.Esthetes they are. I wouldnt be surprised if it was that kind of food yousee produces the like waves of the brain the poetical. For example one ofthose policemen sweating Irish stew into their shirts you couldnt squeezea line of poetry out of him. Dont know what poetry is even. Must be in acertain mood.    THE DREAMY CLOUDY GULL    WAVES OER THE WATERS DULL.He crossed at Nassau street corner and stood before the window ofYeates and Son, pricing the fieldglasses. Or will I drop into old Harrissand have a chat with young Sinclair? Wellmannered fellow. Probably at hislunch. Must get those old glasses of mine set right. Goerz lenses sixguineas. Germans making their way everywhere. Sell on easy terms tocapture trade. Undercutting. Might chance on a pair in the railway lostproperty office. Astonishing the things people leave behind them in trainsand cloakrooms. What do they be thinking about? Women too. Incredible.Last year travelling to Ennis had to pick up that farmers daughters ba and hand it to her at Limerick junction. Unclaimed money too. Theres alittle watch up there on the roof of the bank to test those glasses by.His lids came down on the lower rims of his irides. Cant see it. If youimagine its there you can almost see it. Cant see it.He faced about and, standing between the awnings, held out his righthand at arms length towards the sun. Wanted to try that often. Yes:completely. The tip of his little finger blotted out the suns disk. Mustbe the focus where the rays cross. If I had black glasses. Interesting.There was a lot of talk about those sunspots when we were in Lombardstreet west. Looking up from the back garden. Terrific explosions theyare. There will be a total eclipse this year: autumn some time.Now that I come to think of it that ball falls at Greenwich time. Itsthe clock is worked by an electric wire from Dunsink. Must go out theresome first Saturday of the month. If I could get an introduction toprofessor Joly or learn up something about his family. That would do to:man always feels complimented. Flattery where least expected. Noblemanproud to be descended from some kings mistress. His foremother. Lay it onwith a trowel. Cap in hand goes through the land. Not go in and blurt outwhat you know youre not to: whats parallax? Show this gentleman thedoor.Ah.His hand fell to his side again.Never know anything about it. Waste of time. Gasballs spinningabout, crossing each other, passing. Same old dingdong always. Gas: thensolid: then world: then cold: then dead shell drifting around, frozenrock, like that pineapple rock. The moon. Must be a new moon out, shesaid. I believe there is.He went on by la maison Claire.Wait. The full moon was the night we were Sunday fortnight exactlythere is a new moon. Walking down by the Tolka. Not bad for a Fairviewmoon. She was humming. The young May moon shes beaming, love. Heother side of her. Elbow, arm. He. Glowworms la-amp is gleaming, love.Touch. Fingers. Asking. Answer. Yes.Stop. Stop. If it was it was. Must.Mr Bloom, quickbreathing, slowlier walking passed Adam court.With a keep quiet relief his eyes took note this is the street heremiddle of the day of Bob Dorans bottle shoulders. On his annual bend,M Coy said. They drink in order to say or do something or CHERCHEZ LAFEMME. Up in the Coombe with chummies and streetwalkers and then therest of the year sober as a judge.Yes. Thought so. Sloping into the Empire. Gone. Plain soda would dohim good. Where Pat Kinsella had his Harp theatre before Whitbred ranthe Queens. Broth of a boy. Dion Boucicault business with hisharvestmoon face in a poky bonnet. Three Purty Maids from School. Howtime flies, eh? Showing long red pantaloons under his skirts. Drinkers,drinking, laughed spluttering, their drink against their breath. Morepower, Pat. Coarse red: fun for drunkards: guffaw and smoke. Take off thatwhite hat. His parboiled eyes. Where is he now? Beggar somewhere. The harpthat once did starve us all.I was happier then. Or was that I? Or am I now I? Twentyeight I was.She twentythree. When we left Lombard street west something changed.Could never like it again after Rudy. Cant bring back time. Like holdingwater in your hand. Would you go back to then? Just beginning then.Would you? Are you not happy in your home you poor little naughty boy?Wants to sew on buttons for me. I must answer. Write it in the library.Grafton street gay with housed awnings lured his senses. Muslinprints, silkdames and dowagers, jingle of harnesses, hoofthuds lowringingin the baking causeway. Thick feet that woman has in the white stockings.Hope the rain mucks them up on her. Countrybred chawbacon. All the beefto the heels were in. Always gives a woman clumsy feet. Molly looks out ofplumb.He passed, dallying, the windows of Brown Thomas, silk mercers.Cascades of ribbons. Flimsy China silks. A tilted urn poured from itsmouth a flood of bloodhued poplin: lustrous blood. The huguenots broughtthat here. LA CAUSA E SANTA! TARA TARA. Great chorus that. Taree tara.Must be washed in rainwater. Meyerbeer. Tara: bom bom bom.Pincushions. Im a long time threatening to buy one. Sticking them allover the place. Needles in window curtains.He bared slightly his left forearm. Scrape: nearly gone. Not todayanyhow. Must go back for that lotion. For her birthday perhaps.Junejulyaugseptember eighth. Nearly three months off. Then she mightntlike it. Women wont pick up pins. Say it cuts lo.Gleaming silks, petticoats on slim brass rails, rays of flat silkstockings.Useless to go back. Had to be. Tell me all.High voices. Sunwarm silk. Jingling harnesses. All for a woman,home and houses, silkwebs, silver, rich fruits spicy from Jaffa. AgendathNetaim. Wealth of the world.A warm human plumpness settled down on his brain. His brainyielded. Perfume of embraces all him assailed. With hungered fleshobscurely, he mutely craved to adore.Duke street. Here we are. Must eat. The Burton. Feel better then.He turned Combridges corner, still pursued. Jingling, hoofthuds.Perfumed bodies, warm, full. All kissed, yielded: in deep summer fields,tangled pressed grass, in trickling hallways of tenements, along sofas,creaking beds.--Jack, love!--Darling!--Kiss me, Reggy!--My boy!--Love!His heart astir he pushed in the door of the Burton restaurant. Stinkgripped his trembling breath: pungent meatjuice, slush of greens. See theanimals feed.Men, men, men.Perched on high stools by the bar, hats shoved back, at the tablescalling for more bread no charge, swilling, wolfing gobfuls of sloppyfood, their eyes bulging, wiping wetted moustaches. A pallid suetfacedyoung man polished his tumbler knife fork and spoon with his napkin. Newset of microbes. A man with an infants saucestained napkin tucked roundhim shovelled gurgling soup down his gullet. A man spitting back on hisplate: halfmasticated gristle: gums: no teeth to chewchewchew it. Chumpchop from the grill. Bolting to get it over. Sad boosers eyes. Bitten offmore than he can chew. Am I like that? See ourselves as others see us.Hungry man is an angry man. Working tooth and jaw. Dont! O! A bone! Thatlast pagan king of Ireland Cormac in the schoolpoem choked himself atSletty southward of the Boyne. Wonder what he was eating. Somethinggaloptious. Saint Patrick converted him to Christianity. Couldnt swallowit all however.--Roast beef and cabbage.--One stew.Smells of men. His gorge rose. Spaton sawdust, sweetish warmishcigarette smoke, reek of plug, spilt beer, mens beery piss, the stale offerment.Couldnt eat a morsel here. Fellow sharpening knife and fork to eatall before him, old chap picking his tootles. Slight spasm, full, chewingthe cud. Before and after. Grace after meals. Look on this picture then onthat. Scoffing up stewgravy with sopping sippets of bread. Lick it off theplate, man! Get out of this.He gazed round the stooled and tabled eaters, tightening the wings ofhis nose.--Two stouts here.--One corned and cabbage.That fellow ramming a knifeful of cabbage down as if his lifedepended on it. Good stroke. Give me the fidgets to look. Safer to eatfrom his three hands. Tear it limb from limb. Second nature to him. Bornwith a silver knife in his mouth. Thats witty, I think. Or no. Silvermeans born rich. Born with a knife. But then the allusion is lost.An illgirt server gathered sticky clattering plates. Rock, the headbailiff, standing at the bar blew the foamy crown from his tankard. Wellup: it splashed yellow near his boot. A diner, knife and fork upright,elbows on table, ready for a second helping stared towards the foodliftacross his stained square of newspaper. Other chap telling him somethingwith his mouth full. Sympathetic listener. Table talk. I munched hum unthu Unchster Bunk un Munchday. Ha? Did you, faith?Mr Bloom raised two fingers doubtfully to his lips. His eyes said:--Not here. Dont see him.Out. I hate dirty eaters.He backed towards the door. Get a light snack in Davy Byrnes. Stopgap.Keep me going. Had a good breakfast.--Roast and mashed here.--Pint of stout.Every fellow for his own, tooth and nail. Gulp. Grub. Gulp. Gobstuff.He came out into clearer air and turned back towards Grafton street.Eat or be eaten. Kill! Kill!Suppose that communal kitchen years to come perhaps. All trottingdown with porringers and tommycans to be filled. Devour contents in thestreet. John Howard Parnell example the provost of Trinity every mothersson dont talk of your provosts and provost of Trinity women and childrencabmen priests parsons fieldmarshals archbishops. From Ailesbury road,Clyde road, artisans dwellings, north Dublin union, lord mayor in hisgingerbread coach, old queen in a bathchair. My plates empty. After youwith our incorporated drinkingcup. Like sir Philip Cramptons fountain.Rub off the microbes with your handkerchief. Next chap rubs on a newbatch with his. Father OFlynn would make hares of them all. Have rowsall the same. All for number one. Children fighting for the scrapings ofthe pot. Want a souppot as big as the Phoenix park. Harpooning flitchesand hindquarters out of it. Hate people all round you. City Arms hotelTABLE DHOTE she called it. Soup, joint and sweet. Never know whosethoughts youre chewing. Then whod wash up all the plates and forks?Might be all feeding on tabloids that time. Teeth getting worse and worse.After all theres a lot in that vegetarian fine flavour of things from theearth garlic of course it stinks after Italian organgrinders crisp ofonions mushrooms truffles. Pain to the animal too. Pluck and draw fowl.Wretched brutes there at the cattlemarket waiting for the poleaxe to splittheir skulls open. Moo. Poor trembling calves. Meh. Staggering bob. Bubbleand squeak. Butchers buckets wobbly lights. Give us that brisket off thehook. Plup. Rawhead and bloody bones. Flayed glasseyed sheep hung fromtheir haunches, sheepsnouts bloodypapered snivelling nosejam on sawdust.Top and lashers going out. Dont maul them pieces, young one.Hot fresh blood they prescribe for decline. Blood always needed.Insidious. Lick it up smokinghot, thick sugary. Famished ghosts.Ah, Im hungry.He entered Davy Byrnes. Moral pub. He doesnt chat. Stands adrink now and then. But in leapyear once in four. Cashed a cheque for meonce.What will I take now? He drew his watch. Let me see now. Shandygaff?--Hello, Bloom, Nosey Flynn said from his nook.--Hello, Flynn.--Hows things?--Tiptop ... Let me see. Ill take a glass of burgundy and ... letme see.Sardines on the shelves. Almost taste them by looking. Sandwich?Ham and his descendants musterred and bred there. Potted meats. What ishome without Plumtrees potted meat? Incomplete. What a stupid ad!Under the obituary notices they stuck it. All up a plumtree. Dignamspotted meat. Cannibals would with lemon and rice. White missionary toosalty. Like pickled pork. Expect the chief consumes the parts of honour.Ought to be tough from exercise. His wives in a row to watch the effect.THERE WAS A RIGHT ROYAL OLD NIGGER. WHO ATE OR SOMETHING THE SOMETHINGS OFTHE REVEREND MR MACTRIGGER. With it an abode of bliss. Lord knows whatconcoction. Cauls mouldy tripes windpipes faked and minced up. Puzzlefind the meat. Kosher. No meat and milk together. Hygiene that was whatthey call now. Yom Kippur fast spring cleaning of inside. Peace and wardepend on some fellows digestion. Religions. Christmas turkeys and geese.Slaughter of innocents. Eat drink and be merry. Then casual wards fullafter. Heads bandaged. Cheese digests all but itself. Mity cheese.--Have you a cheese sandwich?--Yes, sir.Like a few olives too if they had them. Italian I prefer. Good glass ofburgundy take away that. Lubricate. A nice salad, cool as a cucumber, TomKernan can dress. Puts gusto into it. Pure olive oil. Milly served me thatcutlet with a sprig of parsley. Take one Spanish onion. God made food, thedevil the cooks. Devilled crab.--Wife well?--Quite well, thanks ... A cheese sandwich, then. Gorgonzola, have you?--Yes, sir.Nosey Flynn sipped his grog.--Doing any singing those times?Look at his mouth. Could whistle in his own ear. Flap ears to match.Music. Knows as much about it as my coachman. Still better tell him. Doesno harm. Free ad.--Shes engaged for a big tour end of this month. You may have heardperhaps.--No. O, thats the style. Whos getting it up?The curate served.--How much is that?--Seven d., sir ... Thank you, sir.Mr Bloom cut his sandwich into slender strips. MR MACTRIGGER. Easierthan the dreamy creamy stuff. HIS FIVE HUNDRED WIVES. HAD THE TIME OFTHEIR LIVES.--Mustard, sir?--Thank you.He studded under each lifted strip yellow blobs. THEIR LIVES. I have it.IT GREW BIGGER AND BIGGER AND BIGGER.--Getting it up? he said. Well, its like a company idea, you see. Partshares and part profits.--Ay, now I remember, Nosey Flynn said, putting his hand in his pocket toscratch his groin. Who is this was telling me? Isnt Blazes Boylan mixedup in it?A warm shock of air heat of mustard hanched on Mr Blooms heart.He raised his eyes and met the stare of a bilious clock. Two. Pub clockfive minutes fast. Time going on. Hands moving. Two. Not yet.His midriff yearned then upward, sank within him, yearned more longly,longingly.Wine.He smellsipped the cordial juice and, bidding his throat strongly tospeed it, set his wineglass delicately down.--Yes, he said. Hes the organiser in point of fact.No fear: no brains.Nosey Flynn snuffled and scratched. Flea having a good square meal.--He had a good slice of luck, Jack Mooney was telling me, over thatboxingmatch Myler Keogh won again that soldier in the Portobellobarracks. By God, he had the little kipper down in the county Carlow hewas telling me ...Hope that dewdrop doesnt come down into his glass. No, snuffled itup.--For near a month, man, before it came off. Sucking duck eggs by God tillfurther orders. Keep him off the boose, see? O, by God, Blazes is a hairychap.Davy Byrne came forward from the hindbar in tuckstitchedshirtsleeves, cleaning his lips with two wipes of his napkin. Herringsblush. Whose smile upon each feature plays with such and such replete.Too much fat on the parsnips.--And heres himself and pepper on him, Nosey Flynn said. Can you giveus a good one for the Gold cup?--Im off that, Mr Flynn, Davy Byrne answered. I never put anything on ahorse.--Youre right there, Nosey Flynn said.Mr Bloom ate his strips of sandwich, fresh clean bread, with relish ofdisgust pungent mustard, the feety savour of green cheese. Sips of hiswine soothed his palate. Not logwood that. Tastes fuller this weather withthe chill off.Nice quiet bar. Nice piece of wood in that counter. Nicely planed.Like the way it curves there.--I wouldnt do anything at all in that line, Davy Byrne said. It ruinedmany a man, the same horses.Vintners sweepstake. Licensed for the sale of beer, wine and spiritsfor consumption on the premises. Heads I win tails you lose.--True for you, Nosey Flynn said. Unless youre in the know. Theres nostraight sport going now. Lenehan gets some good ones. Hes givingSceptre today. Zinfandels the favourite, lord Howard de Waldens, won atEpsom. Morny Cannon is riding him. I could have got seven to one againstSaint Amant a fortnight before.--That so? Davy Byrne said ...He went towards the window and, taking up the pettycash book, scannedits pages.--I could, faith, Nosey Flynn said, snuffling. That was a rare bit ofhorseflesh. Saint Frusquin was her sire. She won in a thunderstorm,Rothschilds filly, with wadding in her ears. Blue jacket and yellow cap.Bad luck to big Ben Dollard and his John OGaunt. He put me off it. Ay.He drank resignedly from his tumbler, running his fingers down the flutes.--Ay, he said, sighing.Mr Bloom, champing, standing, looked upon his sigh. Noseynumbskull. Will I tell him that horse Lenehan? He knows already. Betterlet him forget. Go and lose more. Fool and his money. Dewdrop coming downagain. Cold nose hed have kissing a woman. Still they might like. Pricklybeards they like. Dogs cold noses. Old Mrs Riordan with the rumblingstomachs Skye terrier in the City Arms hotel. Molly fondling him in herlap. O, the big doggybowwowsywowsy!Wine soaked and softened rolled pith of bread mustard a momentmawkish cheese. Nice wine it is. Taste it better because Im not thirsty.Bath of course does that. Just a bite or two. Then about six oclock I can.Six. Six. Time will be gone then. She ...Mild fire of wine kindled his veins. I wanted that badly. Felt so offcolour. His eyes unhungrily saw shelves of tins: sardines, gaudy lobstersclaws. All the odd things people pick up for food. Out of shells, periwinkleswith a pin, off trees, snails out of the ground the French eat, out of the seawith bait on a hook. Silly fish learn nothing in a thousand years. If youdidnt know risky putting anything into your mouth. Poisonous berries.Johnny Magories. Roundness you think good. Gaudy colour warns youoff. One fellow told another and so on. Try it on the dog first. Led on by thesmell or the look. Tempting fruit. Ice cones. Cream. Instinct. Orangegrovesfor instance. Need artificial irrigation. Bleibtreustrasse. Yes but what aboutoysters. Unsightly like a clot of phlegm. Filthy shells. Devil to open themtoo. Who found them out? Garbage, sewage they feed on. Fizz and Redbank oysters. Effect on the sexual. Aphrodis. He was in the Red Bank thismorning. Was he oysters old fish at table perhaps he young flesh in bed noJune has no ar no oysters. But there are people like things high. Taintedgame. Jugged hare. First catch your hare. Chinese eating eggs fifty yearsold, blue and green again. Dinner of thirty courses. Each dish harmlessmight mix inside. Idea for a poison mystery. That archduke Leopold was itno yes or was it Otto one of those Habsburgs? Or who was it used to eatthe scruff off his own head? Cheapest lunch in town. Of course aristocrats,then the others copy to be in the fashion. Milly too rock oil and flour. Rawpastry I like myself. Half the catch of oysters they throw back in the sea tokeep up the price. Cheap no-one would buy. Caviare. Do the grand. Hockin green glasses. Swell blowout. Lady this. Powdered bosom pearls. TheELITE. CREME DE LA CREME. They want special dishes to pretend theyre.Hermit with a platter of pulse keep down the stings of the flesh. Know mecome eat with me. Royal sturgeon high sheriff, Coffey, the butcher, right tovenisons of the forest from his ex. Send him back the half of a cow. SpreadI saw down in the Master of the Rolls kitchen area. Whitehatted CHEF like arabbi. Combustible duck. Curly cabbage A LA DUCHESSE DE PARME. Just aswell to write it on the bill of fare so you can know what youve eaten. Toomany drugs spoil the broth. I know it myself. Dosing it with Edwardsdesiccated soup. Geese stuffed silly for them. Lobsters boiled alive. Doptake some ptarmigan. Wouldnt mind being a waiter in a swell hotel. Tips,evening dress, halfnaked ladies. May I tempt you to a little more filletedlemon sole, miss Dubedat? Yes, do bedad. And she did bedad. Huguenotname I expect that. A miss Dubedat lived in Killiney, I remember.DU, DE LA French. Still its the same fish perhaps old Micky Hanlon ofMoore street ripped the guts out of making money hand over fist finger infishes gills cant write his name on a cheque think he was painting thelandscape with his mouth twisted. Moooikill A Aitcha Ha ignorant as a kishof brogues, worth fifty thousand pounds.Stuck on the pane two flies buzzed, stuck.Glowing wine on his palate lingered swallowed. Crushing in thewinepress grapes of Burgundy. Suns heat it is. Seems to a secret touchtelling me memory. Touched his sense moistened remembered. Hiddenunder wild ferns on Howth below us bay sleeping: sky. No sound. The sky.The bay purple by the Lions head. Green by Drumleck. Yellowgreentowards Sutton. Fields of undersea, the lines faint brown in grass, buriedcities. Pillowed on my coat she had her hair, earwigs in the heather scrubmy hand under her nape, youll toss me all. O wonder! Coolsoft withointments her hand touched me, caressed: her eyes upon me did not turnaway. Ravished over her I lay, full lips full open, kissed her mouth. Yum.Softly she gave me in my mouth the seedcake warm and chewed. Mawkishpulp her mouth had mumbled sweetsour of her spittle. Joy: I ate it: joy.Young life, her lips that gave me pouting. Soft warm sticky gumjelly lips.Flowers her eyes were, take me, willing eyes. Pebbles fell. She lay still. Agoat. No-one. High on Ben Howth rhododendrons a nannygoat walkingsurefooted, dropping currants. Screened under ferns she laughedwarmfolded. Wildly I lay on her, kissed her: eyes, her lips, her stretchedneck beating, womans breasts full in her blouse of nuns veiling, fat nipplesupright. Hot I tongued her. She kissed me. I was kissed. All yielding shetossed my hair. Kissed, she kissed me.Me. And me now.Stuck, the flies buzzed.His downcast eyes followed the silent veining of the oaken slab.Beauty: it curves: curves are beauty. Shapely goddesses, Venus, Juno:curves the world admires. Can see them library museum standing in theround hall, naked goddesses. Aids to digestion. They dont care what manlooks. All to see. Never speaking. I mean to say to fellows like Flynn.Suppose she did Pygmalion and Galatea what would she say first? Mortal!Put you in your proper place. Quaffing nectar at mess with gods goldendishes, all ambrosial. Not like a tanner lunch we have, boiled mutton,carrots and turnips, bottle of Allsop. Nectar imagine it drinking electricity:gods food. Lovely forms of women sculped Junonian. Immortal lovely.And we stuffing food in one hole and out behind: food, chyle, blood, dung,earth, food: have to feed it like stoking an engine. They have no. Neverlooked. Ill look today. Keeper wont see. Bend down let something dropsee if she.Dribbling a quiet message from his bladder came to go to do not to dothere to do. A man and ready he drained his glass to the lees and walked, tomen too they gave themselves, manly conscious, lay with men lovers, ayouth enjoyed her, to the yard.When the sound of his boots had ceased Davy Byrne said from his book:--What is this he is? Isnt he in the insurance line?--Hes out of that long ago, Nosey Flynn said. He does canvassing for theFREEMAN.--I know him well to see, Davy Byrne said. Is he in trouble?--Trouble? Nosey Flynn said. Not that I heard of. Why?--I noticed he was in mourning.--Was he? Nosey Flynn said. So he was, faith. I asked him how was all athome. Youre right, by God. So he was.--I never broach the subject, Davy Byrne said humanely, if I see agentleman is in trouble that way. It only brings it up fresh in their minds.--Its not the wife anyhow, Nosey Flynn said. I met him the day beforeyesterday and he coming out of that Irish farm dairy John Wyse Nolanswife has in Henry street with a jar of cream in his hand taking it home tohis better half. Shes well nourished, I tell you. Plovers on toast.--And is he doing for the Freeman? Davy Byrne said.Nosey Flynn pursed his lips.---He doesnt buy cream on the ads he picks up. You can make bacon ofthat.--How so? Davy Byrne asked, coming from his book.Nosey Flynn made swift passes in the air with juggling fingers. Hewinked.--Hes in the craft, he said.---Do you tell me so? Davy Byrne said.--Very much so, Nosey Flynn said. Ancient free and accepted order. Hesan excellent brother. Light, life and love, by God. They give him a leg up. Iwas told that by a--well, I wont say who.--Is that a fact?--O, its a fine order, Nosey Flynn said. They stick to you when youredown. I know a fellow was trying to get into it. But theyre as close as damnit. By God they did right to keep the women out of it.Davy Byrne smiledyawnednodded all in one:--Iiiiiichaaaaaaach!--There was one woman, Nosey Flynn said, hid herself in a clock to findout what they do be doing. But be damned but they smelt her out and sworeher in on the spot a master mason. That was one of the saint Legers ofDoneraile.Davy Byrne, sated after his yawn, said with tearwashed eyes:--And is that a fact? Decent quiet man he is. I often saw him in here and Inever once saw him--you know, over the line.--God Almighty couldnt make him drunk, Nosey Flynn said firmly. Slipsoff when the fun gets too hot. Didnt you see him look at his watch? Ah,you werent there. If you ask him to have a drink first thing he does he outswith the watch to see what he ought to imbibe. Declare to God he does.--There are some like that, Davy Byrne said. Hes a safe man, Id say.--Hes not too bad, Nosey Flynn said, snuffling it up. Hes been known toput his hand down too to help a fellow. Give the devil his due. O, Bloom hashis good points. But theres one thing hell never do.His hand scrawled a dry pen signature beside his grog.--I know, Davy Byrne said.--Nothing in black and white, Nosey Flynn said.Paddy Leonard and Bantam Lyons came in. Tom Rochford followed frowning,a plaining hand on his claret waistcoat.--Day, Mr Byrne.--Day, gentlemen.They paused at the counter.--Whos standing? Paddy Leonard asked.--Im sitting anyhow, Nosey Flynn answered.--Well, whatll it be? Paddy Leonard asked.--Ill take a stone ginger, Bantam Lyons said.--How much? Paddy Leonard cried. Since when, for God sake? Whatsyours, Tom?--How is the main drainage? Nosey Flynn asked, sipping.For answer Tom Rochford pressed his hand to his breastbone and hiccupped.--Would I trouble you for a glass of fresh water, Mr Byrne? he said.--Certainly, sir.Paddy Leonard eyed his alemates.--Lord love a duck, he said. Look at what Im standing drinks to! Coldwater and gingerpop! Two fellows that would suck whisky off a sore leg.He has some bloody horse up his sleeve for the Gold cup. A dead snip.--Zinfandel is it? Nosey Flynn asked.Tom Rochford spilt powder from a twisted paper into the water setbefore him.--That cursed dyspepsia, he said before drinking.--Breadsoda is very good, Davy Byrne said.Tom Rochford nodded and drank.--Is it Zinfandel?--Say nothing! Bantam Lyons winked. Im going to plunge five bob on myown.--Tell us if youre worth your salt and be damned to you, Paddy Leonardsaid. Who gave it to you?Mr Bloom on his way out raised three fingers in greeting.--So long! Nosey Flynn said.The others turned.--Thats the man now that gave it to me, Bantam Lyons whispered.--Prrwht! Paddy Leonard said with scorn. Mr Byrne, sir, well take two ofyour small Jamesons after that and a ...--Stone ginger, Davy Byrne added civilly.--Ay, Paddy Leonard said. A suckingbottle for the baby.Mr Bloom walked towards Dawson street, his tongue brushing histeeth smooth. Something green it would have to be: spinach, say. Then withthose Rontgen rays searchlight you could.At Duke lane a ravenous terrier choked up a sick knuckly cud on thecobblestones and lapped it with new zest. Surfeit. Returned with thankshaving fully digested the contents. First sweet then savoury. Mr Bloomcoasted warily. Ruminants. His second course. Their upper jaw they move.Wonder if Tom Rochford will do anything with that invention of his?Wasting time explaining it to Flynns mouth. Lean people long mouths.Ought to be a hall or a place where inventors could go in and invent free.Course then youd have all the cranks pestering.He hummed, prolonging in solemn echo the closes of the bars:    DON GIOVANNI, A CENAR TECO    MINVITASTI.Feel better. Burgundy. Good pick me up. Who distilled first? Somechap in the blues. Dutch courage. That KILKENNY PEOPLE in the nationallibrary now I must.Bare clean closestools waiting in the window of William Miller,plumber, turned back his thoughts. They could: and watch it all the waydown, swallow a pin sometimes come out of the ribs years after, tour roundthe body changing biliary duct spleen squirting liver gastric juice coils ofintestines like pipes. But the poor buffer would have to stand all the timewith his insides entrails on show. Science.--A CENAR TECO.What does that teco mean? Tonight perhaps.    DON GIOVANNI, THOU HAST ME INVITED    TO COME TO SUPPER TONIGHT,    THE RUM THE RUMDUM.Doesnt go properly.Keyes: two months if I get Nannetti to. Thatll be two pounds tenabout two pounds eight. Three Hynes owes me. Two eleven. Prescottsdyeworks van over there. If I get Billy Prescotts ad: two fifteen. Fiveguineas about. On the pigs back.Could buy one of those silk petticoats for Molly, colour of her newgarters.Today. Today. Not think.Tour the south then. What about English wateringplaces? Brighton,Margate. Piers by moonlight. Her voice floating out. Those lovely seasidegirls. Against John Longs a drowsing loafer lounged in heavy thought,gnawing a crusted knuckle. Handy man wants job. Small wages. Will eatanything.Mr Bloom turned at Grays confectioners window of unbought tartsand passed the reverend Thomas Connellans bookstore. WHY I LEFT THECHURCH OF ROME? BIRDS NEST. Women run him. They say they used to givepauper children soup to change to protestants in the time of the potatoblight. Society over the way papa went to for the conversion of poor jews.Same bait. Why we left the church of Rome.A blind stripling stood tapping the curbstone with his slender cane.No tram in sight. Wants to cross.--Do you want to cross? Mr Bloom asked.The blind stripling did not answer. His wallface frowned weakly. Hemoved his head uncertainly.--Youre in Dawson street, Mr Bloom said. Molesworth street is opposite.Do you want to cross? Theres nothing in the way.The cane moved out trembling to the left. Mr Blooms eye followed itsline and saw again the dyeworks van drawn up before Dragos. Where Isaw his brillantined hair just when I was. Horse drooping. Driver in JohnLongs. Slaking his drouth.--Theres a van there, Mr Bloom said, but its not moving. Ill see youacross. Do you want to go to Molesworth street?--Yes, the stripling answered. South Frederick street.--Come, Mr Bloom said.He touched the thin elbow gently: then took the limp seeing hand toguide it forward.Say something to him. Better not do the condescending. They mistrustwhat you tell them. Pass a common remark.--The rain kept off.No answer.Stains on his coat. Slobbers his food, I suppose. Tastes all different forhim. Have to be spoonfed first. Like a childs hand, his hand. Like Millyswas. Sensitive. Sizing me up I daresay from my hand. Wonder if he has aname. Van. Keep his cane clear of the horses legs: tired drudge get hisdoze. Thats right. Clear. Behind a bull: in front of a horse.--Thanks, sir.Knows Im a man. Voice.--Right now? First turn to the left.The blind stripling tapped the curbstone and went on his way, drawinghis cane back, feeling again.Mr Bloom walked behind the eyeless feet, a flatcut suit of herringbonetweed. Poor young fellow! How on earth did he know that van was there?Must have felt it. See things in their forehead perhaps: kind of sense ofvolume. Weight or size of it, something blacker than the dark. Wonderwould he feel it if something was removed. Feel a gap. Queer idea ofDublin he must have, tapping his way round by the stones. Could he walkin a beeline if he hadnt that cane? Bloodless pious face like a fellowgoing in to be a priest.Penrose! That was that chaps name.Look at all the things they can learn to do. Read with their fingers.Tune pianos. Or we are surprised they have any brains. Why we think adeformed person or a hunchback clever if he says something we might say.Of course the other senses are more. Embroider. Plait baskets. Peopleought to help. Workbasket I could buy for Mollys birthday. Hates sewing.Might take an objection. Dark men they call them.Sense of smell must be stronger too. Smells on all sides, bunchedtogether. Each street different smell. Each person too. Then the spring, thesummer: smells. Tastes? They say you cant taste wines with your eyes shutor a cold in the head. Also smoke in the dark they say get no pleasure.And with a woman, for instance. More shameless not seeing. That girlpassing the Stewart institution, head in the air. Look at me. I have them allon. Must be strange not to see her. Kind of a form in his minds eye. Thevoice, temperatures: when he touches her with his fingers must almost seethe lines, the curves. His hands on her hair, for instance. Say it was black,for instance. Good. We call it black. Then passing over her white skin.Different feel perhaps. Feeling of white.Postoffice. Must answer. Fag today. Send her a postal order twoshillings, half a crown. Accept my little present. Stationers just here too.Wait. Think over it.With a gentle finger he felt ever so slowly the hair combed back abovehis ears. Again. Fibres of fine fine straw. Then gently his finger felt theskin of his right cheek. Downy hair there too. Not smooth enough. The belly isthe smoothest. No-one about. There he goes into Frederick street. Perhapsto Levenstons dancing academy piano. Might be settling my braces.Walking by Dorans publichouse he slid his hand between hiswaistcoat and trousers and, pulling aside his shirt gently, felt a slackfold of his belly. But I know its whitey yellow. Want to try in the darkto see.He withdrew his hand and pulled his dress to.Poor fellow! Quite a boy. Terrible. Really terrible. What dreamswould he have, not seeing? Life a dream for him. Where is the justice beingborn that way? All those women and children excursion beanfeast burnedand drowned in New York. Holocaust. Karma they call that transmigrationfor sins you did in a past life the reincarnation met him pike hoses.Dear, dear, dear. Pity, of course: but somehow you cant cotton on tothem someway.Sir Frederick Falkiner going into the freemasons hall. Solemn asTroy. After his good lunch in Earlsfort terrace. Old legal croniescracking a magnum. Tales of the bench and assizes and annals of thebluecoat school. I sentenced him to ten years. I suppose hed turn uphis nose at that stuff I drank. Vintage wine for them, the yearmarked on a dusty bottle. Has his own ideas of justice in the recorderscourt. Wellmeaning old man. Police chargesheets crammed with casesget their percentage manufacturing crime. Sends them to the rightabout.The devil on moneylenders. Gave Reuben J. a great strawcalling. Now hesreally what they call a dirty jew. Power those judges have. Crustyold topers in wigs. Bear with a sore paw. And may the Lord have mercyon your soul.Hello, placard. Mirus bazaar. His Excellency the lord lieutenant.Sixteenth. Today it is. In aid of funds for Mercers hospital. THE MESSIAHwas first given for that. Yes. Handel. What about going out there:Ballsbridge. Drop in on Keyes. No use sticking to him like a leech. Wearout my welcome. Sure to know someone on the gate.Mr Bloom came to Kildare street. First I must. Library.Straw hat in sunlight. Tan shoes. Turnedup trousers. It is. It is.His heart quopped softly. To the right. Museum. Goddesses. He swervedto the right.Is it? Almost certain. Wont look. Wine in my face. Why did I? Too heady.Yes, it is. The walk. Not see. Get on.Making for the museum gate with long windy steps he lifted his eyes.Handsome building. Sir Thomas Deane designed. Not following me?Didnt see me perhaps. Light in his eyes.The flutter of his breath came forth in short sighs. Quick. Coldstatues: quiet there. Safe in a minute.No. Didnt see me. After two. Just at the gate.My heart!His eyes beating looked steadfastly at cream curves of stone. SirThomas Deane was the Greek architecture.Look for something I.His hasty hand went quick into a pocket, took out, read unfoldedAgendath Netaim. Where did I?Busy looking.He thrust back quick Agendath.Afternoon she said.I am looking for that. Yes, that. Try all pockets. Handker. Freeman.Where did I? Ah, yes. Trousers. Potato. Purse. Where?Hurry. Walk quietly. Moment more. My heart.His hand looking for the where did I put found in his hip pocket soaplotion have to call tepid paper stuck. Ah soap there I yes. Gate.Safe!    * * * * * * *Urbane, to comfort them, the quaker librarian purred:--And we have, have we not, those priceless pages of WILHELM MEISTER. Agreat poet on a great brother poet. A hesitating soul taking arms against asea of troubles, torn by conflicting doubts, as one sees in real life.He came a step a sinkapace forward on neatsleather creaking and astep backward a sinkapace on the solemn floor.A noiseless attendant setting open the door but slightly made him anoiseless beck.--Directly, said he, creaking to go, albeit lingering. The beautifulineffectual dreamer who comes to grief against hard facts. One always feelsthat Goethes judgments are so true. True in the larger analysis.Twicreakingly analysis he corantoed off. Bald, most zealous by thedoor he gave his large ear all to the attendants words: heard them: and wasgone.Two left.--Monsieur de la Palice, Stephen sneered, was alive fifteen minutes beforehis death.--Have you found those six brave medicals, John Eglinton asked withelders gall, to write PARADISE LOST at your dictation? THE SORROWSOF SATAN he calls it.Smile. Smile Cranlys smile.    FIRST HE TICKLED HER    THEN HE PATTED HER    THEN HE PASSED THE FEMALE CATHETER.    FOR HE WAS A MEDICAL    JOLLY OLD MEDI ...--I feel you would need one more for HAMLET. Seven is dear to the mysticmind. The shining seven W.B. calls them.Glittereyed his rufous skull close to his greencapped desklamp soughtthe face bearded amid darkgreener shadow, an ollav, holyeyed. He laughedlow: a sizars laugh of Trinity: unanswered.    ORCHESTRAL SATAN, WEEPING MANY A ROOD    TEARS SUCH AS ANGELS WEEP.    ED EGLI AVEA DEL CUL FATTO TROMBETTA.He holds my follies hostage.Cranlys eleven true Wicklowmen to free their sireland. GaptoothedKathleen, her four beautiful green fields, the stranger in her house. And onemore to hail him: AVE, RABBI: the Tinahely twelve. In the shadow of the glenhe cooees for them. My souls youth I gave him, night by night. God speed.Good hunting.Mulligan has my telegram.Folly. Persist.--Our young Irish bards, John Eglinton censured, have yet to create afigure which the world will set beside Saxon Shakespeares Hamlet thoughI admire him, as old Ben did, on this side idolatry.--All these questions are purely academic, Russell oracled out of hisshadow. I mean, whether Hamlet is Shakespeare or James I or Essex.Clergymens discussions of the historicity of Jesus. Art has to reveal to usideas, formless spiritual essences. The supreme question about a work of artis out of how deep a life does it spring. The painting of Gustave Moreau isthe painting of ideas. The deepest poetry of Shelley, the words of Hamletbring our minds into contact with the eternal wisdom, Platos world ofideas. All the rest is the speculation of schoolboys for schoolboys.A. E. has been telling some yankee interviewer. Wall, tarnation strike me!--The schoolmen were schoolboys first, Stephen said superpolitely.Aristotle was once Platos schoolboy.--And has remained so, one should hope, John Eglinton sedately said. Onecan see him, a model schoolboy with his diploma under his arm.He laughed again at the now smiling bearded face.Formless spiritual. Father, Word and Holy Breath. Allfather, theheavenly man. Hiesos Kristos, magician of the beautiful, the Logos whosuffers in us at every moment. This verily is that. I am the fire upon thealtar. I am the sacrificial butter.Dunlop, Judge, the noblest Roman of them all, A.E., Arval, the NameIneffable, in heaven hight: K.H., their master, whose identity is nosecret to adepts. Brothers of the great white lodge always watching tosee if they can help. The Christ with the bridesister, moisture of light,born of an ensouled virgin, repentant sophia, departed to the plane ofbuddhi. The life esoteric is not for ordinary person. O.P. must work offbad karma first. Mrs Cooper Oakley once glimpsed our very illustrioussister H.P.B.s elemental.O, fie! Out ont! PFUITEUFEL! You naughtnt to look, missus, so younaughtnt when a ladys ashowing of her elemental.Mr Best entered, tall, young, mild, light. He bore in his hand withgrace a notebook, new, large, clean, bright.--That model schoolboy, Stephen said, would find Hamlets musings aboutthe afterlife of his princely soul, the improbable, insignificant andundramatic monologue, as shallow as Platos.John Eglinton, frowning, said, waxing wroth:--Upon my word it makes my blood boil to hear anyone compare Aristotlewith Plato.--Which of the two, Stephen asked, would have banished me from hiscommonwealth?Unsheathe your dagger definitions. Horseness is the whatness ofallhorse. Streams of tendency and eons they worship. God: noise in thestreet: very peripatetic. Space: what you damn well have to see. Throughspaces smaller than red globules of mans blood they creepycrawl afterBlakes buttocks into eternity of which this vegetable world is but a shadow.Hold to the now, the here, through which all future plunges to the past.Mr Best came forward, amiable, towards his colleague.--Haines is gone, he said.--Is he?--I was showing him Jubainvilles book. Hes quite enthusiastic, dont youknow, about Hydes LOVESONGS OF CONNACHT. I couldnt bring him in tohear the discussion. Hes gone to Gills to buy it.    BOUND THEE FORTH, MY BOOKLET, QUICK    TO GREET THE CALLOUS PUBLIC.    WRIT, I WEEN, TWAS NOT MY WISH    IN LEAN UNLOVELY ENGLISH.--The peatsmoke is going to his head, John Eglinton opined.We feel in England. Penitent thief. Gone. I smoked his baccy. Greentwinkling stone. An emerald set in the ring of the sea.--People do not know how dangerous lovesongs can be, the auric egg ofRussell warned occultly. The movements which work revolutions in theworld are born out of the dreams and visions in a peasants heart on thehillside. For them the earth is not an exploitable ground but the livingmother. The rarefied air of the academy and the arena produce thesixshilling novel, the musichall song. France produces the finest flowerof corruption in Mallarme but the desirable life is revealed only to thepoor of heart, the life of Homers Phaeacians.From these words Mr Best turned an unoffending face to Stephen.--Mallarme, dont you know, he said, has written those wonderful prosepoems Stephen MacKenna used to read to me in Paris. The one aboutHAMLET. He says: IL SE PROMENE, LISANT AU LIVRE DE LUI-MEME, dont youknow, READING THE BOOK OF HIMSELF. He describes HAMLET given in a Frenchtown, dont you know, a provincial town. They advertised it.His free hand graciously wrote tiny signs in air.    HAMLET    OU    LE DISTRAIT    PIECE DE SHAKESPEARE He repeated to John Eglintons newgathered frown:--PIECE DE SHAKESPEARE, dont you know. Its so French. The French pointof view. HAMLET OU ...--The absentminded beggar, Stephen ended. John Eglinton laughed.--Yes, I suppose it would be, he said. Excellent people, no doubt, butdistressingly shortsighted in some matters. Sumptuous and stagnant exaggeration of murder.--A deathsman of the soul Robert Greene called him, Stephen said. Not fornothing was he a butchers son, wielding the sledded poleaxe and spittingin his palms. Nine lives are taken off for his fathers one. Our Fatherwho art in purgatory. Khaki Hamlets dont hesitate to shoot. Thebloodboltered shambles in act five is a forecast of the concentration campsung by Mr Swinburne.Cranly, I his mute orderly, following battles from afar.    WHELPS AND DAMS OF MURDEROUS FOES WHOM NONE    BUT WE HAD SPARED ...Between the Saxon smile and yankee yawp. The devil and the deep sea.--He will have it that HAMLET is a ghoststory, John Eglinton said for MrBests behoof. Like the fat boy in Pickwick he wants to make our fleshcreep.    LIST! LIST! O LIST!My flesh hears him: creeping, hears.    IF THOU DIDST EVER ...--What is a ghost? Stephen said with tingling energy. One who has fadedinto impalpability through death, through absence, through change ofmanners. Elizabethan London lay as far from Stratford as corrupt Parislies from virgin Dublin. Who is the ghost from LIMBO PATRUM, returning tothe world that has forgotten him? Who is King Hamlet?John Eglinton shifted his spare body, leaning back to judge.Lifted.--It is this hour of a day in mid June, Stephen said, begging with a swiftglance their hearing. The flag is up on the playhouse by the bankside. Thebear Sackerson growls in the pit near it, Paris garden. Canvasclimbers whosailed with Drake chew their sausages among the groundlings.Local colour. Work in all you know. Make them accomplices.--Shakespeare has left the huguenots house in Silver street and walks bythe swanmews along the riverbank. But he does not stay to feed the penchivying her game of cygnets towards the rushes. The swan of Avon hasother thoughts.Composition of place. Ignatius Loyola, make haste to help me!--The play begins. A player comes on under the shadow, made up in thecastoff mail of a court buck, a wellset man with a bass voice. It is theghost, the king, a king and no king, and the player is Shakespeare who hasstudied HAMLET all the years of his life which were not vanity in order toplay the part of the spectre. He speaks the words to Burbage, the young playerwho stands before him beyond the rack of cerecloth, calling him by a name:    HAMLET, I AM THY FATHERS SPIRIT,bidding him list. To a son he speaks, the son of his soul, the prince, youngHamlet and to the son of his body, Hamnet Shakespeare, who has died inStratford that his namesake may live for ever.Is it possible that that player Shakespeare, a ghost by absence, and in thevesture of buried Denmark, a ghost by death, speaking his own words tohis own sons name (had Hamnet Shakespeare lived he would have beenprince Hamlets twin), is it possible, I want to know, or probable that hedid not draw or foresee the logical conclusion of those premises: you arethe dispossessed son: I am the murdered father: your mother is theguilty queen, Ann Shakespeare, born Hathaway?--But this prying into the family life of a great man, Russell beganimpatiently.Art thou there, truepenny?--Interesting only to the parish clerk. I mean, we have the plays. I meanwhen we read the poetry of KING LEAR what is it to us how the poet lived?As for living our servants can do that for us, Villiers de lIsle has said.Peeping and prying into greenroom gossip of the day, the poets drinking,the poets debts. We have KING LEAR: and it is immortal.Mr Bests face, appealed to, agreed.    FLOW OVER THEM WITH YOUR WAVES AND WITH YOUR WATERS, MANANAAN,    MANANAAN MACLIR ...How now, sirrah, that pound he lent you when you were hungry?Marry, I wanted it.Take thou this noble.Go to! You spent most of it in Georgina Johnsons bed, clergymansdaughter. Agenbite of inwit.Do you intend to pay it back?O, yes.When? Now?Well ... No.When, then?I paid my way. I paid my way.Steady on. Hes from beyant Boyne water. The northeast corner. You owe it.Wait. Five months. Molecules all change. I am other I now. Other I gotpound.Buzz. Buzz.But I, entelechy, form of forms, am I by memory because undereverchanging forms.I that sinned and prayed and fasted.A child Conmee saved from pandies.I, I and I. I.A.E.I.O.U.--Do you mean to fly in the face of the tradition of three centuries? JohnEglintons carping voice asked. Her ghost at least has been laid for ever.She died, for literature at least, before she was born.--She died, Stephen retorted, sixtyseven years after she was born. She sawhim into and out of the world. She took his first embraces. She bore hischildren and she laid pennies on his eyes to keep his eyelids closed when helay on his deathbed.Mothers deathbed. Candle. The sheeted mirror. Who brought meinto this world lies there, bronzelidded, under few cheap flowers. LILIATARUTILANTIUM.I wept alone.John Eglinton looked in the tangled glowworm of his lamp.--The world believes that Shakespeare made a mistake, he said, and got outof it as quickly and as best he could.--Bosh! Stephen said rudely. A man of genius makes no mistakes. Hiserrors are volitional and are the portals of discovery.Portals of discovery opened to let in the quaker librarian,softcreakfooted, bald, eared and assiduous.--A shrew, John Eglinton said shrewdly, is not a useful portal of discovery,one should imagine. What useful discovery did Socrates learn fromXanthippe?--Dialectic, Stephen answered: and from his mother how to bring thoughtsinto the world. What he learnt from his other wife Myrto (ABSIT NOMEN!),Socratididions Epipsychidion, no man, not a woman, will ever know. Butneither the midwifes lore nor the caudlelectures saved him from thearchons of Sinn Fein and their naggin of hemlock.--But Ann Hathaway? Mr Bests quiet voice said forgetfully. Yes, we seemto be forgetting her as Shakespeare himself forgot her.His look went from brooders beard to carpers skull, to remind, tochide them not unkindly, then to the baldpink lollard costard, guiltlessthough maligned.--He had a good groatsworth of wit, Stephen said, and no truant memory.He carried a memory in his wallet as he trudged to Romeville whistling THEGIRL I LEFT BEHIND ME. If the earthquake did not time it we should knowwhere to place poor Wat, sitting in his form, the cry of hounds, the studdedbridle and her blue windows. That memory, VENUS AND ADONIS, lay in thebedchamber of every light-of-love in London. Is Katharine the shrewillfavoured? Hortensio calls her young and beautiful. Do you think thewriter of ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA, a passionate pilgrim, had his eyes in theback of his head that he chose the ugliest doxy in all Warwickshire to liewithal? Good: he left her and gained the world of men. But his boywomenare the women of a boy. Their life, thought, speech are lent them by males.He chose badly? He was chosen, it seems to me. If others have their willAnn hath a way. By cock, she was to blame. She put the comether on him,sweet and twentysix. The greyeyed goddess who bends over the boy Adonis,stooping to conquer, as prologue to the swelling act, is a boldfacedStratford wench who tumbles in a cornfield a lover younger than herself.And my turn? When?Come!--Ryefield, Mr Best said brightly, gladly, raising his new book, gladly,brightly.He murmured then with blond delight for all:    BETWEEN THE ACRES OF THE RYE    THESE PRETTY COUNTRYFOLK WOULD LIE.Paris: the wellpleased pleaser.A tall figure in bearded homespun rose from shadow and unveiled itscooperative watch.--I am afraid I am due at the HOMESTEAD.Whither away? Exploitable ground.--Are you going? John Eglintons active eyebrows asked. Shall we see youat Moores tonight? Piper is coming.--Piper! Mr Best piped. Is Piper back?Peter Piper pecked a peck of pick of peck of pickled pepper.--I dont know if I can. Thursday. We have our meeting. If I can get awayin time.Yogibogeybox in Dawson chambers. ISIS UNVEILED. Their Pali bookwe tried to pawn. Crosslegged under an umbrel umbershoot he thrones anAztec logos, functioning on astral levels, their oversoul, mahamahatma. Thefaithful hermetists await the light, ripe for chelaship, ringroundabout him.Louis H. Victory. T. Caulfield Irwin. Lotus ladies tend them ithe eyes, theirpineal glands aglow. Filled with his god, he thrones, Buddh under plantain.Gulfer of souls, engulfer. Hesouls, shesouls, shoals of souls. Engulfed withwailing creecries, whirled, whirling, they bewail.    IN QUINTESSENTIAL TRIVIALITY    FOR YEARS IN THIS FLESHCASE A SHESOUL DWELT.--They say we are to have a literary surprise, the quaker librarian said,friendly and earnest. Mr Russell, rumour has it, is gathering together asheaf of our younger poets verses. We are all looking forward anxiously.Anxiously he glanced in the cone of lamplight where three faces,lighted, shone.See this. Remember.Stephen looked down on a wide headless caubeen, hung on hisashplanthandle over his knee. My casque and sword. Touch lightly withtwo index fingers. Aristotles experiment. One or two? Necessity is that invirtue of which it is impossible that one can be otherwise. Argal, one hat isone hat.Listen.Young Colum and Starkey. George Roberts is doing the commercial part.Longworth will give it a good puff in the EXPRESS. O, will he? I likedColums DROVER. Yes, I think he has that queer thing genius. Do you thinkhe has genius really? Yeats admired his line: AS IN WILD EARTH A GRECIANVASE. Did he? I hope youll be able to come tonight. Malachi Mulligan iscoming too. Moore asked him to bring Haines. Did you hear MissMitchells joke about Moore and Martyn? That Moore is Martyns wildoats? Awfully clever, isnt it? They remind one of Don Quixote and SanchoPanza. Our national epic has yet to be written, Dr Sigerson says. Moore isthe man for it. A knight of the rueful countenance here in Dublin. With asaffron kilt? ONeill Russell? O, yes, he must speak the grand old tongue.And his Dulcinea? James Stephens is doing some clever sketches. We arebecoming important, it seems.Cordelia. CORDOGLIO. Lirs loneliest daughter.Nookshotten. Now your best French polish.--Thank you very much, Mr Russell, Stephen said, rising. If you will be sokind as to give the letter to Mr Norman ...--O, yes. If he considers it important it will go in. We have so muchcorrespondence.--I understand, Stephen said. Thanks.God ild you. The pigs paper. Bullockbefriending.Synge has promised me an article for DANA too. Are we going to beread? I feel we are. The Gaelic league wants something in Irish. I hope youwill come round tonight. Bring Starkey.Stephen sat down.The quaker librarian came from the leavetakers. Blushing, his masksaid:--Mr Dedalus, your views are most illuminating.He creaked to and fro, tiptoing up nearer heaven by the altitude of achopine, and, covered by the noise of outgoing, said low:--Is it your view, then, that she was not faithful to the poet?Alarmed face asks me. Why did he come? Courtesy or an inwardlight?--Where there is a reconciliation, Stephen said, there must have been first asundering.--Yes.Christfox in leather trews, hiding, a runaway in blighted treeforks,from hue and cry. Knowing no vixen, walking lonely in the chase. Womenhe won to him, tender people, a whore of Babylon, ladies of justices, bullytapsters wives. Fox and geese. And in New Place a slack dishonoured bodythat once was comely, once as sweet, as fresh as cinnamon, now her leavesfalling, all, bare, frighted of the narrow grave and unforgiven.--Yes. So you think ...The door closed behind the outgoer.Rest suddenly possessed the discreet vaulted cell, rest of warm andbrooding air.A vestals lamp.Here he ponders things that were not: what Caesar would have livedto do had he believed the soothsayer: what might have been: possibilities ofthe possible as possible: things not known: what name Achilles bore whenhe lived among women.Coffined thoughts around me, in mummycases, embalmed in spice ofwords. Thoth, god of libraries, a birdgod, moonycrowned. And I heard thevoice of that Egyptian highpriest. IN PAINTED CHAMBERS LOADED WITHTILEBOOKS.They are still. Once quick in the brains of men. Still: but an itch ofdeath is in them, to tell me in my ear a maudlin tale, urge me to wreak theirwill.--Certainly, John Eglinton mused, of all great men he is the most enigmatic.We know nothing but that he lived and suffered. Not even so much. Othersabide our question. A shadow hangs over all the rest.--But HAMLET is so personal, isnt it? Mr Best pleaded. I mean, a kind ofprivate paper, dont you know, of his private life. I mean, I dont care abutton, dont you know, who is killed or who is guilty ...He rested an innocent book on the edge of the desk, smiling hisdefiance. His private papers in the original. TA AN BAD AR AN TIR. TAIM IN MOSHAGART. Put beurla on it, littlejohn.Quoth littlejohn Eglinton:--I was prepared for paradoxes from what Malachi Mulligan told us but Imay as well warn you that if you want to shake my belief that Shakespeareis Hamlet you have a stern task before you.Bear with me.Stephen withstood the bane of miscreant eyes glinting stern underwrinkled brows. A basilisk. E QUANDO VEDE LUOMO LATTOSCA. MesserBrunetto, I thank thee for the word.--As we, or mother Dana, weave and unweave our bodies, Stephen said,from day to day, their molecules shuttled to and fro, so does the artistweave and unweave his image. And as the mole on my right breast is whereit was when I was born, though all my body has been woven of new stufftime after time, so through the ghost of the unquiet father the image of theunliving son looks forth. In the intense instant of imagination, when themind, Shelley says, is a fading coal, that which I was is that which I am andthat which in possibility I may come to be. So in the future, the sister ofthe past, I may see myself as I sit here now but by reflection from that whichthen I shall be.Drummond of Hawthornden helped you at that stile.--Yes, Mr Best said youngly. I feel Hamlet quite young. The bitternessmight be from the father but the passages with Ophelia are surely from theson.Has the wrong sow by the lug. He is in my father. I am in his son.--That mole is the last to go, Stephen said, laughing.John Eglinton made a nothing pleasing mow.--If that were the birthmark of genius, he said, genius would be a drug inthe market. The plays of Shakespeares later years which Renan admired somuch breathe another spirit.--The spirit of reconciliation, the quaker librarian breathed.--There can be no reconciliation, Stephen said, if there has not been asundering.Said that.--If you want to know what are the events which cast their shadow over thehell of time of KING LEAR, OTHELLO, HAMLET, TROILUS AND CRESSIDA, look tosee when and how the shadow lifts. What softens the heart of a man,shipwrecked in storms dire, Tried, like another Ulysses, Pericles, prince ofTyre?Head, redconecapped, buffeted, brineblinded.--A child, a girl, placed in his arms, Marina.--The leaning of sophists towards the bypaths of apocrypha is a constantquantity, John Eglinton detected. The highroads are dreary but they lead tothe town.Good Bacon: gone musty. Shakespeare Bacons wild oats.Cypherjugglers going the highroads. Seekers on the great quest. Whattown, good masters? Mummed in names: A. E., eon: Magee, John Eglinton.East of the sun, west of the moon: TIR NA N-OG. Booted the twain andstaved.    HOW MANY MILES TO DUBLIN?    THREE SCORE AND TEN, SIR.    WILL WE BE THERE BY CANDLELIGHT?--Mr Brandes accepts it, Stephen said, as the first play of the closingperiod.--Does he? What does Mr Sidney Lee, or Mr Simon Lazarus as some averhis name is, say of it?--Marina, Stephen said, a child of storm, Miranda, a wonder, Perdita, thatwhich was lost. What was lost is given back to him: his daughters child.MY DEAREST WIFE, Pericles says, WAS LIKE THIS MAID. Will any man love thedaughter if he has not loved the mother?--The art of being a grandfather, Mr Best gan murmur. LART DETREGRAND ...--Will he not see reborn in her, with the memory of his own youth added,another image?Do you know what you are talking about? Love, yes. Word known toall men. Amor vero aliquid alicui bonum vult unde et ea quaeconcupiscimus ...--His own image to a man with that queer thing genius is the standard ofall experience, material and moral. Such an appeal will touch him. Theimages of other males of his blood will repel him. He will see in themgrotesque attempts of nature to foretell or to repeat himself.The benign forehead of the quaker librarian enkindled rosily with hope.--I hope Mr Dedalus will work out his theory for the enlightenment of thepublic. And we ought to mention another Irish commentator, Mr GeorgeBernard Shaw. Nor should we forget Mr Frank Harris. His articles onShakespeare in the SATURDAY REVIEW were surely brilliant. Oddly enoughhe too draws for us an unhappy relation with the dark lady of the sonnets.The favoured rival is William Herbert, earl of Pembroke. I own that if thepoet must be rejected such a rejection would seem more in harmonywith--what shall I say?--our notions of what ought not to have been.Felicitously he ceased and held a meek head among them, auks egg,prize of their fray.He thous and thees her with grave husbandwords. Dost love, Miriam?Dost love thy man?--That may be too, Stephen said. Theres a saying of Goethes which MrMagee likes to quote. Beware of what you wish for in youth because youwill get it in middle life. Why does he send to one who is a BUONAROBA, abay where all men ride, a maid of honour with a scandalous girlhood, alordling to woo for him? He was himself a lord of language and had madehimself a coistrel gentleman and he had written ROMEO AND JULIET. Why?Belief in himself has been untimely killed. He was overborne in acornfield first (ryefield, I should say) and he will never be a victorin his own eyes after nor play victoriously the game of laugh and liedown. Assumed dongiovannism will not save him. No later undoing will undothe first undoing. The tusk of the boar has wounded him there where lovelies ableeding. If the shrew is worsted yet there remains to her womansinvisible weapon. There is, I feel in the words, some goad of the fleshdriving him into a new passion, a darker shadow of the first, darkeningeven his own understanding of himself. A like fate awaits him and the tworages commingle in a whirlpool.They list. And in the porches of their ears I pour.--The soul has been before stricken mortally, a poison poured in the porchof a sleeping ear. But those who are done to death in sleep cannot knowthe manner of their quell unless their Creator endow their souls with thatknowledge in the life to come. The poisoning and the beast with two backsthat urged it King Hamlets ghost could not know of were he not endowedwith knowledge by his creator. That is why the speech (his lean unlovelyEnglish) is always turned elsewhere, backward. Ravisher and ravished,what he would but would not, go with him from Lucreces bluecircled ivoryglobes to Imogens breast, bare, with its mole cinquespotted. He goesback, weary of the creation he has piled up to hide him from himself, anold dog licking an old sore. But, because loss is his gain, he passes ontowards eternity in undiminished personality, untaught by the wisdom hehas written or by the laws he has revealed. His beaver is up. He is aghost, a shadow now, the wind by Elsinores rocks or what you will, theseas voice, a voice heard only in the heart of him who is the substanceof his shadow, the son consubstantial with the father.--Amen! was responded from the doorway.Hast thou found me, O mine enemy?ENTRACTE.A ribald face, sullen as a deans, Buck Mulligan came forward, thenblithe in motley, towards the greeting of their smiles. My telegram.--You were speaking of the gaseous vertebrate, if I mistake not? he askedof Stephen.Primrosevested he greeted gaily with his doffed Panama as with a bauble.They make him welcome. WAS DU VERLACHST WIRST DU NOCH DIENEN.Brood of mockers: Photius, pseudomalachi, Johann Most.He Who Himself begot middler the Holy Ghost and Himself sentHimself, Agenbuyer, between Himself and others, Who, put upon by Hisfiends, stripped and whipped, was nailed like bat to barndoor, starved oncrosstree, Who let Him bury, stood up, harrowed hell, fared into heavenand there these nineteen hundred years sitteth on the right hand of HisOwn Self but yet shall come in the latter day to doom the quick and deadwhen all the quick shall be dead already.Glo--o--ri--a in ex--cel--sis De--o.He lifts his hands. Veils fall. O, flowers! Bells with bells with bellsaquiring.--Yes, indeed, the quaker librarian said. A most instructive discussion.Mr Mulligan, Ill be bound, has his theory too of the play and ofShakespeare. All sides of life should be represented.He smiled on all sides equally.Buck Mulligan thought, puzzled:--Shakespeare? he said. I seem to know the name.A flying sunny smile rayed in his loose features.--To be sure, he said, remembering brightly. The chap that writes likeSynge.Mr Best turned to him.--Haines missed you, he said. Did you meet him? Hell see you after at theD. B. C. Hes gone to Gills to buy Hydes LOVESONGS OF CONNACHT.--I came through the museum, Buck Mulligan said. Was he here?--The bards fellowcountrymen, John Eglinton answered, are rather tiredperhaps of our brilliancies of theorising. I hear that an actress playedHamlet for the fourhundredandeighth time last night in Dublin. Viningheld that the prince was a woman. Has no-one made him out to be anIrishman? Judge Barton, I believe, is searching for some clues. He swears(His Highness not His Lordship) by saint Patrick.--The most brilliant of all is that story of Wildes, Mr Best said,lifting his brilliant notebook. THAT PORTRAIT OF MR W. H. where he provesthat the sonnets were written by a Willie Hughes, a man all hues.--For Willie Hughes, is it not? the quaker librarian asked.Or Hughie Wills? Mr William Himself. W. H.: who am I?--I mean, for Willie Hughes, Mr Best said, amending his gloss easily. Ofcourse its all paradox, dont you know, Hughes and hews and hues, thecolour, but its so typical the way he works it out. Its the very essenceof Wilde, dont you know. The light touch.His glance touched their faces lightly as he smiled, a blond ephebe.Tame essence of Wilde.Youre darned witty. Three drams of usquebaugh you drank with Dan Deasysducats.How much did I spend? O, a few shillings.For a plump of pressmen. Humour wet and dry.Wit. You would give your five wits for youths proud livery he pranksin. Lineaments of gratified desire.There be many mo. Take her for me. In pairing time. Jove, a coolruttime send them. Yea, turtledove her.Eve. Naked wheatbellied sin. A snake coils her, fang ins kiss.--Do you think it is only a paradox? the quaker librarian was asking. Themocker is never taken seriously when he is most serious.They talked seriously of mockers seriousness.Buck Mulligans again heavy face eyed Stephen awhile. Then, hishead wagging, he came near, drew a folded telegram from his pocket. Hismobile lips read, smiling with new delight.--Telegram! he said. Wonderful inspiration! Telegram! A papal bull!He sat on a corner of the unlit desk, reading aloud joyfully:--THE SENTIMENTALIST IS HE WHO WOULD ENJOY WITHOUT INCURRING THE IMMENSEDEBTORSHIP FOR A THING DONE. Signed: Dedalus. Where did you launch itfrom? The kips? No. College Green. Have you drunk the four quid? Theaunt is going to call on your unsubstantial father. Telegram! MalachiMulligan, The Ship, lower Abbey street. O, you peerless mummer! O, youpriestified Kinchite!Joyfully he thrust message and envelope into a pocket but keened in aquerulous brogue:--Its what Im telling you, mister honey, its queer and sick we were,Haines and myself, the time himself brought it in. Twas murmur we did fora gallus potion would rouse a friar, Im thinking, and he limp withleching. And we one hour and two hours and three hours in Conneryssitting civil waiting for pints apiece.He wailed:--And we to be there, mavrone, and you to be unbeknownst sending usyour conglomerations the way we to have our tongues out a yard long likethe drouthy clerics do be fainting for a pussful.Stephen laughed.Quickly, warningfully Buck Mulligan bent down.--The tramper Synge is looking for you, he said, to murder you. He heardyou pissed on his halldoor in Glasthule. Hes out in pampooties to murderyou.--Me! Stephen exclaimed. That was your contribution to literature.Buck Mulligan gleefully bent back, laughing to the dark eavesdroppingceiling.--Murder you! he laughed.Harsh gargoyle face that warred against me over our mess of hash oflights in rue Saint-Andre-des-Arts. In words of words for words, palabras.Oisin with Patrick. Faunman he met in Clamart woods, brandishing awinebottle. CEST VENDREDI SAINT! Murthering Irish. His image, wandering,he met. I mine. I met a fool ithe forest.--Mr Lyster, an attendant said from the door ajar.-- ... in which everyone can find his own. So Mr Justice Madden in hisDIARY OF MASTER WILLIAM SILENCE has found the hunting terms ... Yes? Whatis it?--Theres a gentleman here, sir, the attendant said, coming forward andoffering a card. From the Freeman. He wants to see the files of theKILKENNY PEOPLE for last year.--Certainly, certainly, certainly. Is the gentleman? ...He took the eager card, glanced, not saw, laid down unglanced,looked, asked, creaked, asked:--Is he? ... O, there!Brisk in a galliard he was off, out. In the daylit corridor he talkedwith voluble pains of zeal, in duty bound, most fair, most kind, mosthonest broadbrim.--This gentleman? FREEMANS JOURNAL? KILKENNY PEOPLE? To be sure. Goodday, sir. KILKENNY ... We have certainly ...A patient silhouette waited, listening.--All the leading provincial ... NORTHERN WHIG, CORK EXAMINER,ENNISCORTHY GUARDIAN,  ... Will you please? ... Evans,conduct this gentleman ... If you just follow the atten ... Or, pleaseallow me ... This way ... Please, sir ...Voluble, dutiful, he led the way to all the provincial papers, a bowingdark figure following his hasty heels.The door closed.--The sheeny! Buck Mulligan cried.He jumped up and snatched the card.--Whats his name? Ikey Moses? Bloom.He rattled on:--Jehovah, collector of prepuces, is no more. I found him over in themuseum where I went to hail the foamborn Aphrodite. The Greek mouththat has never been twisted in prayer. Every day we must do homage to her.LIFE OF LIFE, THY LIPS ENKINDLE.Suddenly he turned to Stephen:--He knows you. He knows your old fellow. O, I fear me, he is Greekerthan the Greeks. His pale Galilean eyes were upon her mesial groove.Venus Kallipyge. O, the thunder of those loins! THE GOD PURSUING THEMAIDEN HID.--We want to hear more, John Eglinton decided with Mr Bests approval.We begin to be interested in Mrs S. Till now we had thought of her, if atall, as a patient Griselda, a Penelope stayathome.--Antisthenes, pupil of Gorgias, Stephen said, took the palm of beautyfrom Kyrios Menelaus brooddam, Argive Helen, the wooden mare of Troy inwhom a score of heroes slept, and handed it to poor Penelope. Twenty yearshe lived in London and, during part of that time, he drew a salary equalto that of the lord chancellor of Ireland. His life was rich. His art,more than the art of feudalism as Walt Whitman called it, is the art ofsurfeit. Hot herringpies, green mugs of sack, honeysauces, sugar of roses,marchpane, gooseberried pigeons, ringocandies. Sir Walter Raleigh, whenthey arrested him, had half a million francs on his back including a pairof fancy stays. The gombeenwoman Eliza Tudor had underlinen enough to viewith her of Sheba. Twenty years he dallied there between conjugial loveand its chaste delights and scortatory love and its foul pleasures.You know Manninghams story of the burghers wife who bade Dick Burbageto her bed after she had seen him in RICHARD III and how Shakespeare,overhearing, without more ado about nothing, took the cow by the hornsand, when Burbage came knocking at the gate, answered from the caponsblankets: WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR CAME BEFORE RICHARD III. And the gaylakin, mistress Fitton, mount and cry O, and his dainty birdsnies, ladyPenelope Rich, a clean quality woman is suited for a player, and the punksof the bankside, a penny a time.Cours la Reine. ENCORE VINGT SOUS. NOUS FERONS DE PETITES COCHONNERIES.MINETTE? TU VEUX?--The height of fine society. And sir William Davenant of oxfords motherwith her cup of canary for any cockcanary.Buck Mulligan, his pious eyes upturned, prayed:--Blessed Margaret Mary Anycock!--And Harry of six wives daughter. And other lady friends fromneighbour seats as Lawn Tennyson, gentleman poet, sings. But all thosetwenty years what do you suppose poor Penelope in Stratford was doingbehind the diamond panes?Do and do. Thing done. In a rosery of Fetter lane of Gerard,herbalist, he walks, greyedauburn. An azured harebell like her veins. Lidsof Junos eyes, violets. He walks. One life is all. One body. Do. But do.Afar, in a reek of lust and squalor, hands are laid on whiteness.Buck Mulligan rapped John Eglintons desk sharply.--Whom do you suspect? he challenged.--Say that he is the spurned lover in the sonnets. Once spurned twicespurned. But the court wanton spurned him for a lord, his dearmylove.Love that dare not speak its name.--As an Englishman, you mean, John sturdy Eglinton put in, he loveda lord.Old wall where sudden lizards flash. At Charenton I watched them.--It seems so, Stephen said, when he wants to do for him, and for allother and singular uneared wombs, the holy office an ostler does for thestallion. Maybe, like Socrates, he had a midwife to mother as he had ashrew to wife. But she, the giglot wanton, did not break a bedvow. Twodeeds are rank in that ghosts mind: a broken vow and the dullbrainedyokel on whom her favour has declined, deceased husbands brother. SweetAnn, I take it, was hot in the blood. Once a wooer, twice a wooer.Stephen turned boldly in his chair.--The burden of proof is with you not with me, he said frowning. If youdeny that in the fifth scene of HAMLET he has branded her with infamy tellme why there is no mention of her during the thirtyfour years between theday she married him and the day she buried him. All those women saw theirmen down and under: Mary, her goodman John, Ann, her poor dearWillun, when he went and died on her, raging that he was the first to go,Joan, her four brothers, Judith, her husband and all her sons, Susan, herhusband too, while Susans daughter, Elizabeth, to use granddaddyswords, wed her second, having killed her first.O, yes, mention there is. In the years when he was living richly in royalLondon to pay a debt she had to borrow forty shillings from her fathersshepherd. Explain you then. Explain the swansong too wherein he hascommended her to posterity.He faced their silence.To whom thus Eglinton:        You mean the will.    But that has been explained, I believe, by jurists.    She was entitled to her widows dower    At common law. His legal knowledge was great    Our judges tell us.        Him Satan fleers,    Mocker:        And therefore he left out her name    From the first draft but he did not leave out    The presents for his granddaughter, for his daughters,    For his sister, for his old cronies in Stratford    And in London. And therefore when he was urged,    As I believe, to name her    He left her his    Secondbest    Bed.                PUNKT.    Leftherhis    Secondbest    Leftherhis    Bestabed    Secabest    Leftabed.Woa!--Pretty countryfolk had few chattels then, John Eglinton observed, asthey have still if our peasant plays are true to type.--He was a rich country gentleman, Stephen said, with a coat of arms andlanded estate at Stratford and a house in Ireland yard, a capitalistshareholder, a bill promoter, a tithefarmer. Why did he not leave her hisbest bed if he wished her to snore away the rest of her nights in peace?--It is clear that there were two beds, a best and a secondbest,Mr Secondbest Best said finely.--SEPARATIO A MENSA ET A THALAMO, bettered Buck Mulligan and wassmiled on.--Antiquity mentions famous beds, Second Eglinton puckered, bedsmiling.Let me think.--Antiquity mentions that Stagyrite schoolurchin and bald heathen sage,Stephen said, who when dying in exile frees and endows his slaves, paystribute to his elders, wills to be laid in earth near the bones of hisdead wife and bids his friends be kind to an old mistress (dont forgetNell Gwynn Herpyllis) and let her live in his villa.--Do you mean he died so? Mr Best asked with slight concern. I mean ...--He died dead drunk, Buck Mulligan capped. A quart of ale is a dish for aking. O, I must tell you what Dowden said!--What? asked Besteglinton.William Shakespeare and company, limited. The peoples William.For terms apply: E. Dowden, Highfield house ...--Lovely! Buck Mulligan suspired amorously. I asked him what he thoughtof the charge of pederasty brought against the bard. He lifted his handsand said: ALL WE CAN SAY IS THAT LIFE RAN VERY HIGH IN THOSE DAYS. Lovely!Catamite.--The sense of beauty leads us astray, said beautifulinsadness Best tougling Eglinton.Steadfast John replied severe:--The doctor can tell us what those words mean. You cannot eat your cakeand have it.Sayest thou so? Will they wrest from us, from me, the palm of beauty?--And the sense of property, Stephen said. He drew Shylock out of his ownlong pocket. The son of a maltjobber and moneylender he was himself acornjobber and moneylender, with ten tods of corn hoarded in the famineriots. His borrowers are no doubt those divers of worship mentioned byChettle Falstaff who reported his uprightness of dealing. He sued afellowplayer for the price of a few bags of malt and exacted his pound offlesh in interest for every money lent. How else could Aubreys ostler andcallboy get rich quick? All events brought grist to his mill. Shylockchimes with the jewbaiting that followed the hanging and quartering of thequeens leech Lopez, his jews heart being plucked forth while the sheenywas yet alive: HAMLET AND MACBETH with the coming to the throne of aScotch philosophaster with a turn for witchroasting. The lost armada ishis jeer in LOVES LABOUR LOST. His pageants, the histories, sailfullbellied on a tide of Mafeking enthusiasm. Warwickshire jesuits aretried and we have a porters theory of equivocation. The SEA VENTURE comeshome from Bermudas and the play Renan admired is written with PatsyCaliban, our American cousin. The sugared sonnets follow Sidneys. As forfay Elizabeth, otherwise carrotty Bess, the gross virgin who inspired THEMERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR, let some meinherr from Almany grope his life longfor deephid meanings in the depths of the buckbasket.I think youre getting on very nicely. Just mix up a mixture oftheolologicophilolological. MINGO, MINXI, MICTUM, MINGERE.--Prove that he was a jew, John Eglinton dared,expectantly. Your dean ofstudies holds he was a holy Roman.SUFFLAMINANDUS SUM.--He was made in Germany, Stephen replied, as the champion Frenchpolisher of Italian scandals.--A myriadminded man, Mr Best reminded. Coleridge called him myriadminded.AMPLIUS. IN SOCIETATE HUMANA HOC EST MAXIME NECESSARIUM UT SIT AMICITIAINTER MULTOS.--Saint Thomas, Stephen began ...--Ora pro nobis, Monk Mulligan groaned, sinking to a chair.There he keened a wailing rune.--POGUE MAHONE! ACUSHLA MACHREE! Its destroyed we are from this day! Itsdestroyed we are surely!All smiled their smiles.--Saint Thomas, Stephen smiling said, whose gorbellied works I enjoyreading in the original, writing of incest from a standpoint differentfrom that of the new Viennese school Mr Magee spoke of, likens it in hiswise and curious way to an avarice of the emotions. He means that the loveso given to one near in blood is covetously withheld from somestranger who, it may be, hungers for it. Jews, whom christians taxwith avarice, are of all races the most given to intermarriage.Accusations are made in anger. The christian laws which built upthe hoards of the jews (for whom, as for the lollards, storm was shelter)bound their affections too with hoops of steel. Whether these be sinsor virtues old Nobodaddy will tell us at doomsday leet. But a man whoholds so tightly to what he calls his rights over what he calls his debtswill hold tightly also to what he calls his rights over her whom he callshis wife. No sir smile neighbour shall covet his ox or his wife or hismanservant or his maidservant or his jackass.--Or his jennyass, Buck Mulligan antiphoned.--Gentle Will is being roughly handled, gentle Mr Best said gently.--Which will? gagged sweetly Buck Mulligan. We are getting mixed.--The will to live, John Eglinton philosophised, for poor Ann, Willswidow, is the will to die.--REQUIESCAT! Stephen prayed.    WHAT OF ALL THE WILL TO DO?    IT HAS VANISHED LONG AGO ...--She lies laid out in stark stiffness in that secondbest bed, the mobledqueen, even though you prove that a bed in those days was as rare as amotorcar is now and that its carvings were the wonder of seven parishes.In old age she takes up with gospellers (one stayed with her at New Placeand drank a quart of sack the town council paid for but in which bed heslept it skills not to ask) and heard she had a soul. She read or had readto her his chapbooks preferring them to the MERRY WIVES and, loosing hernightly waters on the jordan, she thought over HOOKS AND EYES FORBELIEVERS BREECHES and THE MOST SPIRITUAL SNUFFBOX TO MAKE THE MOSTDEVOUT SOULS SNEEZE. Venus has twisted her lips in prayer. Agenbite ofinwit: remorse of conscience. It is an age of exhausted whoredom gropingfor its god.--History shows that to be true, INQUIT EGLINTONUS CHRONOLOLOGOS. The agessucceed one another. But we have it on high authority that a mans worstenemies shall be those of his own house and family. I feel that Russell isright. What do we care for his wife or father? I should say that onlyfamily poets have family lives. Falstaff was not a family man. I feel thatthe fat knight is his supreme creation.Lean, he lay back. Shy, deny thy kindred, the unco guid. Shy, suppingwith the godless, he sneaks the cup. A sire in Ultonian Antrim bade ithim. Visits him here on quarter days. Mr Magee, sir, theres a gentlemanto see you. Me? Says hes your father, sir. Give me my Wordsworth. EnterMagee Mor Matthew, a rugged rough rugheaded kern, in strossers with abuttoned codpiece, his nether stocks bemired with clauber of ten forests,a wand of wilding in his hand.Your own? He knows your old fellow. The widower.Hurrying to her squalid deathlair from gay Paris on the quayside Itouched his hand. The voice, new warmth, speaking. Dr Bob Kenny isattending her. The eyes that wish me well. But do not know me.--A father, Stephen said, battling against hopelessness, is a necessaryevil. He wrote the play in the months that followed his fathers death. Ifyou hold that he, a greying man with two marriageable daughters, withthirtyfive years of life, NEL MEZZO DEL CAMMIN DI NOSTRA VITA, with fiftyof experience, is the beardless undergraduate from Wittenberg then youmust hold that his seventyyear old mother is the lustful queen. No. Thecorpse of John Shakespeare does not walk the night. From hour to hour itrots and rots. He rests, disarmed of fatherhood, having devised thatmystical estate upon his son. Boccaccios Calandrino was the first andlast man who felt himself with child. Fatherhood, in the sense ofconscious begetting, is unknown to man. It is a mystical estate, anapostolic succession, from only begetter to only begotten. On that mysteryand not on the madonna which the cunning Italian intellect flungto the mob of Europe the church is founded and founded irremovablybecause founded, like the world, macro and microcosm, upon the void. Uponincertitude, upon unlikelihood. AMOR MATRIS, subjective and objectivegenitive, may be the only true thing in life. Paternity may be a legalfiction. Who is the father of any son that any son should love him or heany son?What the hell are you driving at?I know. Shut up. Blast you. I have reasons.AMPLIUS. ADHUC. ITERUM. POSTEA.Are you condemned to do this?--They are sundered by a bodily shame so steadfast that the criminalannals of the world, stained with all other incests and bestialities,hardly record its breach. Sons with mothers, sires with daughters, lesbicsisters, loves that dare not speak their name, nephews with grandmothers,jailbirds with keyholes, queens with prize bulls. The son unborn marsbeauty: born, he brings pain, divides affection, increases care. He is anew male: his growth is his fathers decline, his youth his fathers envy,his friend his fathers enemy.In rue Monsieur-le-Prince I thought it.--What links them in nature? An instant of blind rut.Am I a father? If I were?Shrunken uncertain hand.--Sabellius, the African, subtlest heresiarch of all the beasts of thefield, held that the Father was Himself His Own Son. The bulldog of Aquin,with whom no word shall be impossible, refutes him. Well: if the fatherwho has not a son be not a father can the son who has not a father be ason? When Rutlandbaconsouthamptonshakespeare or another poet of the samename in the comedy of errors wrote Hamlet he was not the father of his ownson merely but, being no more a son, he was and felt himself the father ofall his race, the father of his own grandfather, the father of his unborngrandson who, by the same token, never was born, for nature, as Mr Mageeunderstands her, abhors perfection.Eglintoneyes, quick with pleasure, looked up shybrightly. Gladlyglancing, a merry puritan, through the twisted eglantine.Flatter. Rarely. But flatter.--Himself his own father, Sonmulligan told himself. Wait. I am big withchild. I have an unborn child in my brain. Pallas Athena! A play! Theplays the thing! Let me parturiate!He clasped his paunchbrow with both birthaiding hands.--As for his family, Stephen said, his mothers name lives in the forestof Arden. Her death brought from him the scene with Volumnia inCORIOLANUS. His boysons death is the deathscene of young Arthur in KINGJOHN. Hamlet, the black prince, is Hamnet Shakespeare. Who the girls inTHE TEMPEST, in PERICLES, in WINTERS TALE are we know. Who Cleopatra,fleshpot of Egypt, and Cressid and Venus are we may guess. But there isanother member of his family who is recorded.--The plot thickens, John Eglinton said.The quaker librarian, quaking, tiptoed in, quake, his mask, quake,with haste, quake, quack.Door closed. Cell. Day.They list. Three. They.I you he they.Come, mess.STEPHEN: He had three brothers, Gilbert, Edmund, Richard. Gilbert in hisold age told some cavaliers he got a pass for nowt from Maister Gathererone time mass he did and he seen his brud Maister Wull the playwriter upin Lunnon in a wrastling play wud a man ons back. The playhouse sausagefilled Gilberts soul. He is nowhere: but an Edmund and a Richard arerecorded in the works of sweet William.MAGEEGLINJOHN: Names! Whats in a name?BEST: That is my name, Richard, dont you know. I hope you are going tosay a good word for Richard, dont you know, for my sake.                (Laughter)BUCKMULLIGAN: (PIANO, DIMINUENDO)         Then outspoke medical Dick         To his comrade medical Davy ...STEPHEN: In his trinity of black Wills, the villain shakebags, Iago,Richard Crookback, Edmund in King Lear, two bear the wicked uncles names.Nay, that last play was written or being written while his brother Edmundlay dying in Southwark.BEST: I hope Edmund is going to catch it. I dont want Richard,my name ...                (Laughter)QUAKERLYSTER: (A TEMPO) But he that filches from me my good name ...STEPHEN: (STRINGENDO) He has hidden his own name, a fair name, William,in the plays, a super here, a clown there, as a painter of old Italy sethis face in a dark corner of his canvas. He has revealed it in the sonnetswhere there is Will in overplus. Like John oGaunt his name is dear to him,as dear as the coat and crest he toadied for, on a bend sable a spear orsteeled argent, honorificabilitudinitatibus, dearer than his glory ofgreatest shakescene in the country. Whats in a name? That is what we askourselves in childhood when we write the name that we are told is ours. Astar, a daystar, a firedrake, rose at his birth. It shone by day in theheavens alone, brighter than Venus in the night, and by night it shoneover delta in Cassiopeia, the recumbent constellation which is thesignature of his initial among the stars. His eyes watched it, lowlying onthe horizon, eastward of the bear, as he walked by the slumberous summerfields at midnight returning from Shottery and from her arms.Both satisfied. I too.Dont tell them he was nine years old when it was quenched.And from her arms.Wait to be wooed and won. Ay, meacock. Who will woo you?Read the skies. AUTONTIMORUMENOS. BOUS STEPHANOUMENOS. Wheresyour configuration? Stephen, Stephen, cut the bread even. S. D: SUA DONNA.GIA: DI LUI. GELINDO RISOLVE DI NON AMARE S. D.--What is that, Mr Dedalus? the quaker librarian asked. Was it a celestialphenomenon?--A star by night, Stephen said. A pillar of the cloud by day.What mores to speak?Stephen looked on his hat, his stick, his boots.STEPHANOS, my crown. My sword. His boots are spoiling the shape ofmy feet. Buy a pair. Holes in my socks. Handkerchief too.--You make good use of the name, John Eglinton allowed. Your own nameis strange enough. I suppose it explains your fantastical humour.Me, Magee and Mulligan.Fabulous artificer. The hawklike man. You flew. Whereto?Newhaven-Dieppe, steerage passenger. Paris and back. Lapwing. Icarus.PATER, AIT. Seabedabbled, fallen, weltering. Lapwing you are. Lapwing be.Mr Best eagerquietly lifted his book to say:--Thats very interesting because that brother motive, dont you know, wefind also in the old Irish myths. Just what you say. The three brothersShakespeare. In Grimm too, dont you know, the fairytales. The thirdbrother that always marries the sleeping beauty and wins the best prize.Best of Best brothers. Good, better, best.The quaker librarian springhalted near.--I should like to know, he said, which brother you ... I understand youto suggest there was misconduct with one of the brothers ... Butperhaps I am anticipating?He caught himself in the act: looked at all: refrained.An attendant from the doorway called:--Mr Lyster! Father Dineen wants ...--O, Father Dineen! Directly.Swiftly rectly creaking rectly rectly he was rectly gone.John Eglinton touched the foil.--Come, he said. Let us hear what you have to say of Richard andEdmund. You kept them for the last, didnt you?--In asking you to remember those two noble kinsmen nuncle Richie andnuncle Edmund, Stephen answered, I feel I am asking too much perhaps. Abrother is as easily forgotten as an umbrella.Lapwing.Where is your brother? Apothecaries hall. My whetstone. Him, thenCranly, Mulligan: now these. Speech, speech. But act. Act speech. Theymock to try you. Act. Be acted on.Lapwing.I am tired of my voice, the voice of Esau. My kingdom for a drink.On.--You will say those names were already in the chronicles from which hetook the stuff of his plays. Why did he take them rather than others?Richard, a whoreson crookback, misbegotten, makes love to a widowedAnn (whats in a name?), woos and wins her, a whoreson merry widow.Richard the conqueror, third brother, came after William the conquered.The other four acts of that play hang limply from that first. Of all hiskings Richard is the only king unshielded by Shakespeares reverence,the angel of the world. Why is the underplot of KING LEAR in which Edmundfigures lifted out of Sidneys ARCADIA and spatchcocked on to a Celticlegend older than history?--That was Wills way, John Eglinton defended. We should not nowcombine a Norse saga with an excerpt from a novel by George Meredith.QUE VOULEZ-VOUS? Moore would say. He puts Bohemia on the seacoast andmakes Ulysses quote Aristotle.--Why? Stephen answered himself. Because the theme of the false or theusurping or the adulterous brother or all three in one is to Shakespeare,what the poor are not, always with him. The note of banishment,banishment from the heart, banishment from home, sounds uninterruptedlyfrom THE TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA onward till Prospero breaks his staff,buries it certain fathoms in the earth and drowns his book. It doublesitself in the middle of his life, reflects itself in another, repeatsitself, protasis, epitasis, catastasis, catastrophe. It repeatsitself again when he is near the grave, when his married daughterSusan, chip of the old block, is accused of adultery. But it wasthe original sin that darkened his understanding, weakened hiswill and left in him a strong inclination to evil. The words arethose of my lords bishops of Maynooth. An original sin and, like originalsin, committed by another in whose sin he too has sinned. It is betweenthe lines of his last written words, it is petrified on his tombstoneunder which her four bones are not to be laid. Age has not withered it.Beauty and peace have not done it away. It is in infinite varietyeverywhere in the world he has created, in MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING, twicein AS YOU LIKE IT, in THE TEMPEST, in HAMLET, in MEASURE FOR MEASURE--andin all the other plays which I have not read.He laughed to free his mind from his minds bondage.Judge Eglinton summed up.--The truth is midway, he affirmed. He is the ghost and the prince. He isall in all.--He is, Stephen said. The boy of act one is the mature man of act five.All in all. In CYMBELINE, in OTHELLO he is bawd and cuckold. He acts andis acted on. Lover of an ideal or a perversion, like Jose he kills thereal Carmen. His unremitting intellect is the hornmad Iago ceaselesslywilling that the moor in him shall suffer.--Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Cuck Mulligan clucked lewdly. O word of fear!Dark dome received, reverbed.--And what a character is Iago! undaunted John Eglinton exclaimed.When all is said Dumas FILS (or is it Dumas PERE?) is right. After GodShakespeare has created most.--Man delights him not nor woman neither, Stephen said. He returns aftera life of absence to that spot of earth where he was born, where he hasalways been, man and boy, a silent witness and there, his journey of lifeended, he plants his mulberrytree in the earth. Then dies. The motion isended. Gravediggers bury Hamlet PERE and Hamlet FILS. A king and aprince at last in death, with incidental music. And, what though murderedand betrayed, bewept by all frail tender hearts for, Dane or Dubliner,sorrow for the dead is the only husband from whom they refuse to bedivorced. If you like the epilogue look long on it: prosperous Prospero,the good man rewarded, Lizzie, grandpas lump of love, and nuncle Richie,the bad man taken off by poetic justice to the place where the bad niggersgo. Strong curtain. He found in the world without as actual what was in hisworld within as possible. Maeterlinck says: IF SOCRATES LEAVE HIS HOUSETODAY HE WILL FIND THE SAGE SEATED ON HIS DOORSTEP. IF JUDAS GO FORTHTONIGHT IT IS TO JUDAS HIS STEPS WILL TEND. Every life is many days,day after day. We walk through ourselves, meeting robbers, ghosts, giants,old men, young men, wives, widows, brothers-in-love, but always meetingourselves. The playwright who wrote the folio of this world and wrote itbadly (He gave us light first and the sun two days later), the lord ofthings as they are whom the most Roman of catholics call DIO BOIA,hangman god, is doubtless all in all in all of us, ostler and butcher,and would be bawd and cuckold too but  that in the economy of heaven,foretold by Hamlet, there are no more marriages, glorified man, anandrogynous angel, being a wife unto himself.--EUREKA! Buck Mulligan cried. EUREKA!Suddenly happied he jumped up and reached in a stride John Eglintonsdesk.--May I? he said. The Lord has spoken to Malachi.He began to scribble on a slip of paper.Take some slips from the counter going out.--Those who are married, Mr Best, douce herald, said, all save one, shalllive. The rest shall keep as they are.He laughed, unmarried, at Eglinton Johannes, of arts a bachelor.Unwed, unfancied, ware of wiles, they fingerponder nightly each hisvariorum edition of THE TAMING OF THE SHREW.--You are a delusion, said roundly John Eglinton to Stephen. You havebrought us all this way to show us a French triangle. Do you believe yourown theory?--No, Stephen said promptly.--Are you going to write it? Mr Best asked. You ought to make it adialogue, dont you know, like the Platonic dialogues Wilde wrote.John Eclecticon doubly smiled.--Well, in that case, he said, I dont see why you should expect paymentfor it since you dont believe it yourself. Dowden believes there is somemystery in HAMLET but will say no more. Herr Bleibtreu, the man Piper metin Berlin, who is working up that Rutland theory, believes that the secretis hidden in the Stratford monument. He is going to visit the presentduke, Piper says, and prove to him that his ancestor wrote the plays.It will come as a surprise to his grace. But he believes his theory.I believe, O Lord, help my unbelief. That is, help me to believe or helpme to unbelieve? Who helps to believe? EGOMEN. Who to unbelieve? Otherchap.--You are the only contributor to DANA who asks for pieces of silver. ThenI dont know about the next number. Fred Ryan wants space for an articleon economics.Fraidrine. Two pieces of silver he lent me. Tide you over. Economics.--For a guinea, Stephen said, you can publish this interview.Buck Mulligan stood up from his laughing scribbling, laughing: andthen gravely said, honeying malice:--I called upon the bard Kinch at his summer residence in upperMecklenburgh street and found him deep in the study of the SUMMA CONTRAGENTILES in the company of two gonorrheal ladies, Fresh Nelly and Rosalie,the coalquay whore.He broke away.--Come, Kinch. Come, wandering Aengus of the birds.Come, Kinch. You have eaten all we left. Ay. I will serve you your ortsand offals.Stephen rose.Life is many days. This will end.--We shall see you tonight, John Eglinton said. NOTRE AMI Moore saysMalachi Mulligan must be there.Buck Mulligan flaunted his slip and panama.--Monsieur Moore, he said, lecturer on French letters to the youth ofIreland. Ill be there. Come, Kinch, the bards must drink. Can you walkstraight?Laughing, he ...Swill till eleven. Irish nights entertainment.Lubber ...Stephen followed a lubber ...One day in the national library we had a discussion. Shakes. After.His lub back: I followed. I gall his kibe.Stephen, greeting, then all amort, followed a lubber jester, awellkempt head, newbarbered, out of the vaulted cell into a shatteringdaylight of no thought.What have I learned? Of them? Of me?Walk like Haines now.The constant readers room. In the readers book Cashel BoyleOConnor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell parafes his polysyllables. Item: wasHamlet mad? The quakers pate godlily with a priesteen in booktalk.--O please do, sir ... I shall be most pleased ...Amused Buck Mulligan mused in pleasant murmur with himself, selfnodding:--A pleased bottom.The turnstile.Is that? ... Blueribboned hat ... Idly writing ... What? Looked? ...The curving balustrade: smoothsliding Mincius.Puck Mulligan, panamahelmeted, went step by step, iambing, trolling:    JOHN EGLINTON, MY JO, JOHN,    WHY WONT YOU WED A WIFE?He spluttered to the air:--O, the chinless Chinaman! Chin Chon Eg Lin Ton. We went over to theirplaybox, Haines and I, the plumbers hall. Our players are creating a newart for Europe like the Greeks or M. Maeterlinck. Abbey Theatre! I smellthe pubic sweat of monks.He spat blank.Forgot: any more than he forgot the whipping lousy Lucy gave him.And left the FEMME DE TRENTE ANS. And why no other children born? And hisfirst child a girl?Afterwit. Go back.The dour recluse still there (he has his cake) and the douce youngling,minion of pleasure, Phedos toyable fair hair.Eh ... I just eh ... wanted ... I forgot ... he ...--Longworth and MCurdy Atkinson were there ...Puck Mulligan footed featly, trilling:    I HARDLY HEAR THE PURLIEU CRY    OR A TOMMY TALK AS I PASS ONE BY    BEFORE MY THOUGHTS BEGIN TO RUN    ON F. MCURDY ATKINSON,    THE SAME THAT HAD THE WOODEN LEG    AND THAT FILIBUSTERING FILIBEG    THAT NEVER DARED TO SLAKE HIS DROUTH,    MAGEE THAT HAD THE CHINLESS MOUTH.    BEING AFRAID TO MARRY ON EARTH    THEY MASTURBATED FOR ALL THEY WERE WORTH.Jest on. Know thyself.Halted, below me, a quizzer looks at me. I halt.--Mournful mummer, Buck Mulligan moaned. Synge has left off wearingblack to be like nature. Only crows, priests and English coal are black.A laugh tripped over his lips.--Longworth is awfully sick, he said, after what you wrote about that oldhake Gregory. O you inquisitional drunken jewjesuit! She gets you a job onthe paper and then you go and slate her drivel to Jaysus. Couldnt you dothe Yeats touch?He went on and down, mopping, chanting with waving graceful arms:--The most beautiful book that has come out of our country in my time.One thinks of Homer.He stopped at the stairfoot.--I have conceived a play for the mummers, he said solemnly.The pillared Moorish hall, shadows entwined. Gone the nine mensmorrice with caps of indices.In sweetly varying voices Buck Mulligan read his tablet:        EVERYMAN HIS OWN WIFE                OR        A HONEYMOON IN THE HAND    (A NATIONAL IMMORALITY IN THREE ORGASMS)                BY        BALLOCKY MULLIGANHe turned a happy patchs smirk to Stephen, saying:--The disguise, I fear, is thin. But listen.He read, MARCATO:--Characters:    TODY TOSTOFF (a ruined Pole)    CRAB (a bushranger)    MEDICAL DICK  )        and       ) (two birds with one stone)    MEDICAL DAVY  )    MOTHER GROGAN (a watercarrier)    FRESH NELLY        and    ROSALIE (the coalquay whore).He laughed, lolling a to and fro head, walking on, followed by Stephen:and mirthfully he told the shadows, souls of men:--O, the night in the Camden hall when the daughters of Erin had to lifttheir skirts to step over you as you lay in your mulberrycoloured,multicoloured, multitudinous vomit!--The most innocent son of Erin, Stephen said, for whom they ever liftedthem.About to pass through the doorway, feeling one behind, he stood aside.Part. The moment is now. Where then? If Socrates leave his housetoday, if Judas go forth tonight. Why? That lies in space which I in timemust come to, ineluctably.My will: his will that fronts me. Seas between.A man passed out between them, bowing, greeting.--Good day again, Buck Mulligan said.The portico.Here I watched the birds for augury. Aengus of the birds. They go,they come. Last night I flew. Easily flew. Men wondered. Street of harlotsafter. A creamfruit melon he held to me. In. You will see.--The wandering jew, Buck Mulligan whispered with clowns awe. Did yousee his eye? He looked upon you to lust after you. I fear thee, ancientmariner. O, Kinch, thou art in peril. Get thee a breechpad.Manner of Oxenford.Day. Wheelbarrow sun over arch of bridge.A dark back went before them, step of a pard, down, out by thegateway, under portcullis barbs.They followed.Offend me still. Speak on.Kind air defined the coigns of houses in Kildare street. No birds. Frailfrom the housetops two plumes of smoke ascended, pluming, and in a flawof softness softly were blown.Cease to strive. Peace of the druid priests of Cymbeline: hierophantic:from wide earth an altar.    LAUD WE THE GODS    AND LET OUR CROOKED SMOKES CLIMB TO THEIR NOSTRILS    FROM OUR BLESSD ALTARS.    * * * * * * *The superior, the very reverend John Conmee S.J. reset his smoothwatch in his interior pocket as he came down the presbytery steps. Five tothree. Just nice time to walk to Artane. What was that boys name again?Dignam. Yes. VERE DIGNUM ET IUSTUM EST. Brother Swan was the person tosee. Mr Cunninghams letter. Yes. Oblige him, if possible. Good practicalcatholic: useful at mission time.A onelegged sailor, swinging himself onward by lazy jerks of hiscrutches, growled some notes. He jerked short before the convent of thesisters of charity and held out a peaked cap for alms towards the veryreverend John Conmee S. J. Father Conmee blessed him in the sun for hispurse held, he knew, one silver crown.Father Conmee crossed to Mountjoy square. He thought, but not forlong, of soldiers and sailors, whose legs had been shot off bycannonballs, ending their days in some pauper ward, and of cardinalWolseys words: IF I HAD SERVED MY GOD AS I HAVE SERVED MY KING HE WOULDNOT HAVE ABANDONED ME IN MY OLD DAYS. He walked by the treeshade ofsunnywinking leaves: and towards him came the wife of Mr David SheehyM.P.--Very well, indeed, father. And you, father?Father Conmee was wonderfully well indeed. He would go to Buxtonprobably for the waters. And her boys, were they getting on well atBelvedere? Was that so? Father Conmee was very glad indeed to hear that.And Mr Sheehy himself? Still in London. The house was still sitting, to besure it was. Beautiful weather it was, delightful indeed. Yes, it was veryprobable that Father Bernard Vaughan would come again to preach. O,yes: a very great success. A wonderful man really.Father Conmee was very glad to see the wife of Mr David SheehyM.P. Iooking so well and he begged to be remembered to Mr David SheehyM.P. Yes, he would certainly call.--Good afternoon, Mrs Sheehy.Father Conmee doffed his silk hat and smiled, as he took leave, at thejet beads of her mantilla inkshining in the sun. And smiled yet again, ingoing. He had cleaned his teeth, he knew, with arecanut paste.Father Conmee walked and, walking, smiled for he thought on FatherBernard Vaughans droll eyes and cockney voice.--Pilate! Wy dont you old back that owlin mob?A zealous man, however. Really he was. And really did great good in.his way. Beyond a doubt. He loved Ireland, he said, and he loved theIrish. Of good family too would one think it? Welsh, were they not?O, lest he forget. That letter to father provincial.Father Conmee stopped three little schoolboys at the corner ofMountjoy square. Yes: they were from Belvedere. The little house. Aha.And were they good boys at school? O. That was very good now. And whatwas his name? Jack Sohan. And his name? Ger. Gallaher. And the otherlittle man? His name was Brunny Lynam. O, that was a very nice name tohave.Father Conmee gave a letter from his breast to Master Brunny Lynamand pointed to the red pillarbox at the corner of Fitzgibbon street.--But mind you dont post yourself into the box, little man, he said.The boys sixeyed Father Conmee and laughed:--O, sir.--Well, let me see if you can post a letter, Father Conmee said.Master Brunny Lynam ran across the road and put Father Conmeesletter to father provincial into the mouth of the bright red letterbox.Father Conmee smiled and nodded and smiled and walked along Mountjoysquare east.Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c, in silk hat, slatefrockcoat with silk facings, white kerchief tie, tight lavender trousers,canary gloves and pointed patent boots, walking with grave deportmentmost respectfully took the curbstone as he passed lady Maxwell at thecorner of Dignams court.Was that not Mrs MGuinness?Mrs MGuinness, stately, silverhaired, bowed to Father Conmee fromthe farther footpath along which she sailed. And Father Conmee smiled andsaluted. How did she do?A fine carriage she had. Like Mary, queen of Scots, something. And tothink that she was a pawnbroker! Well, now! Such a ... what should hesay? ... such a queenly mien.Father Conmee walked down Great Charles street and glanced at theshutup free church on his left. The reverend T. R. Greene B.A. will(D.V.)speak. The incumbent they called him. He felt it incumbent on him to say afew words. But one should be charitable. Invincible ignorance. They actedaccording to their lights.Father Conmee turned the corner and walked along the NorthCircular road. It was a wonder that there was not a tramline in such animportant thoroughfare. Surely, there ought to be.A band of satchelled schoolboys crossed from Richmond street. Allraised untidy caps. Father Conmee greeted them more than once benignly.Christian brother boys.Father Conmee smelt incense on his right hand as he walked. SaintJosephs church, Portland row. For aged and virtuous females. FatherConmee raised his hat to the Blessed Sacrament. Virtuous: but occasionallythey were also badtempered.Near Aldborough house Father Conmee thought of that spendthriftnobleman. And now it was an office or something.Father Conmee began to walk along the North Strand road and wassaluted by Mr William Gallagher who stood in the doorway of his shop.Father Conmee saluted Mr William Gallagher and perceived the odoursthat came from baconflitches and ample cools of butter. He passedGrogans the Tobacconist against which newsboards leaned and told of adreadful catastrophe in New York. In America those things werecontinually happening. Unfortunate people to die like that, unprepared.Still, an act of perfect contrition.Father Conmee went by Daniel Bergins publichouse against thewindow of which two unlabouring men lounged. They saluted him andwere saluted.Father Conmee passed H. J. ONeills funeral establishment whereCorny Kelleher totted figures in the daybook while he chewed a blade ofhay. A constable on his beat saluted Father Conmee and Father Conmeesaluted the constable. In Youkstetters, the porkbutchers, Father Conmeeobserved pigs puddings, white and black and red, lie neatly curled intubes.Moored under the trees of Charleville Mall Father Conmee saw aturfbarge, a towhorse with pendent head, a bargeman with a hat of dirtystraw seated amidships, smoking and staring at a branch of poplar abovehim. It was idyllic: and Father Conmee reflected on the providence of theCreator who had made turf to be in bogs whence men might dig it out andbring it to town and hamlet to make fires in the houses of poor people.On Newcomen bridge the very reverend John Conmee S.J. of saintFrancis Xaviers church, upper Gardiner street, stepped on to an outwardbound tram.Off an inward bound tram stepped the reverend Nicholas DudleyC. C. of saint Agathas church, north William street, on to Newcomenbridge.At Newcomen bridge Father Conmee stepped into an outward boundtram for he disliked to traverse on foot the dingy way past Mud Island.Father Conmee sat in a corner of the tramcar, a blue ticket tuckedwith care in the eye of one plump kid glove, while four shillings, asixpence and five pennies chuted from his other plump glovepalm into hispurse. Passing the ivy church he reflected that the ticket inspectorusually made his visit when one had carelessly thrown away the ticket.The solemnity of the occupants of the car seemed to Father Conmeeexcessive for a journey so short and cheap. Father Conmee liked cheerfuldecorum.It was a peaceful day. The gentleman with the glasses opposite FatherConmee had finished explaining and looked down. His wife, FatherConmee supposed. A tiny yawn opened the mouth of the wife of the gentlemanwith the glasses. She raised her small gloved fist, yawned ever so gently,tiptapping  her small gloved fist on her opening mouth and smiled tinily,sweetly.Father Conmee perceived her perfume in the car. He perceived alsothat the awkward man at the other side of her was sitting on the edge ofthe seat.Father Conmee at the altarrails placed the host with difficulty in themouth of the awkward old man who had the shaky head.At Annesley bridge the tram halted and, when it was about to go, anold woman rose suddenly from her place to alight. The conductor pulledthe bellstrap to stay the car for her. She passed out with her basket anda marketnet: and Father Conmee saw the conductor help her and net andbasket down: and Father Conmee thought that, as she had nearly passedthe end of the penny fare, she was one of those good souls who had alwaysto be told twice BLESS YOU, MY CHILD, that they have been absolved, PRAYFOR ME. But they had so many worries in life, so many cares, poorcreatures.From the hoardings Mr Eugene Stratton grimaced with thick niggerlips atFather Conmee.Father Conmee thought of the souls of black and brown and yellowmen and of his sermon on saint Peter Claver S.J. and the African missionand of the propagation of the faith and of the millions of black and brownand yellow souls that had not received the baptism of water when their lasthour came like a thief in the night. That book by the Belgian jesuit, LENOMBRE DES ELUS, seemed to Father Conmee a reasonable plea. Those weremillions of human souls created by God in His Own likeness to whom thefaith had not (D.V.) been brought. But they were Gods souls, created byGod. It seemed to Father Conmee a pity that they should all be lost, awaste, if one might say.At the Howth road stop Father Conmee alighted, was saluted by theconductor and saluted in his turn.The Malahide road was quiet. It pleased Father Conmee, road andname. The joybells were ringing in gay Malahide. Lord Talbot de Malahide,immediate hereditary lord admiral of Malahide and the seas adjoining.Then came the call to arms and she was maid, wife and widow in one day.Those were old worldish days, loyal times in joyous townlands, old timesin the barony.Father Conmee, walking, thought of his little book OLD TIMES IN THEBARONY and of the book that might be written about jesuit houses and ofMary Rochfort, daughter of lord Molesworth, first countess of Belvedere.A listless lady, no more young, walked alone the shore of loughEnnel, Mary, first countess of Belvedere, listlessly walking in theevening, not startled when an otter plunged. Who could know the truth?Not the jealous lord Belvedere and not her confessor if she had notcommitted adultery fully, EIACULATIO SEMINIS INTER VAS NATURALE MULIERIS,with her husbands brother? She would half confess if she had not allsinned as women did. Only God knew and she and he, her husbands brother.Father Conmee thought of that tyrannous incontinence, neededhowever for mans race on earth, and of the ways of God which were notour ways.Don John Conmee walked and moved in times of yore. He washumane and honoured there. He bore in mind secrets confessed and hesmiled at smiling noble faces in a beeswaxed drawingroom, ceiled with fullfruit clusters. And the hands of a bride and of a bridegroom, noble tonoble, were impalmed by Don John Conmee.It was a charming day.The lychgate of a field showed Father Conmee breadths of cabbages,curtseying to him with ample underleaves. The sky showed him a flock ofsmall white clouds going slowly down the wind. MOUTONNER, the Frenchsaid. A just and homely word.Father Conmee, reading his office, watched a flock of muttoningclouds over Rathcoffey. His thinsocked ankles were tickled by the stubbleof Clongowes field. He walked there, reading in the evening, and heard thecries of the boys lines at their play, young cries in the quiet evening.He was their rector: his reign was mild.Father Conmee drew off his gloves and took his rededged breviary out.An ivory bookmark told him the page.Nones. He should have read that before lunch. But lady Maxwell had come.Father Conmee read in secret PATER and AVE and crossed his breast.DEUS IN ADIUTORIUM.He walked calmly and read mutely the nones, walking and reading tillhe came to RES in BEATI IMMACULATI: PRINCIPIUM VERBORUM TUORUM VERITAS:IN ETERNUM OMNIA INDICIA IUSTITIAE TUAE.A flushed young man came from a gap of a hedge and after him camea young woman with wild nodding daisies in her hand. The young manraised his cap abruptly: the young woman abruptly bent and with slow caredetached from her light skirt a clinging twig.Father Conmee blessed both gravely and turned a thin page of hisbreviary. Sin: PRINCIPES PERSECUTI SUNT ME GRATIS: ET A VERBIS TUISFORMIDAVIT COR MEUM.    * * * * *Corny Kelleher closed his long daybook and glanced with hisdrooping eye at a pine coffinlid sentried in a corner. He pulled himselferect, went to it and, spinning it on its axle, viewed its shape and brassfurnishings. Chewing his blade of hay he laid the coffinlid by and came tothe doorway. There he tilted his hatbrim to give shade to his eyes andleaned against the doorcase, looking idly out.Father John Conmee stepped into the Dollymount tram onNewcomen bridge.Corny Kelleher locked his largefooted boots and gazed, his hatdowntilted, chewing his blade of hay.Constable C, on his beat, stood to pass the time of day.--Thats a fine day, Mr Kelleher.--Ay, Corny Kelleher said.--Its very close, the constable said.Corny Kelleher sped a silent jet of hayjuice arching from his mouthwhile a generous white arm from a window in Eccles street flung forth acoin.--Whats the best news? he asked.--I seen that particular party last evening, the constable said with batedbreath.    * * * * *A onelegged sailor crutched himself round MacConnells corner,skirting Rabaiottis icecream car, and jerked himself up Eccles street.Towards Larry ORourke, in shirtsleeves in his doorway, he growledunamiably:--For England ...He swung himself violently forward past Katey and Boody Dedalus,halted and growled:--HOME AND BEAUTY.J. J. OMolloys white careworn face was told that Mr Lambert wasin the warehouse with a visitor.A stout lady stopped, took a copper coin from her purse and droppedit into the cap held out to her. The sailor grumbled thanks, glancedsourly at the unheeding windows, sank his head and swung himself forwardfour strides.He halted and growled angrily:--FOR ENGLAND ...Two barefoot urchins, sucking long liquorice laces, halted near him,gaping at his stump with their yellowslobbered mouths.He swung himself forward in vigorous jerks, halted, lifted his headtowards a window and bayed deeply:--HOME AND BEAUTY.The gay sweet chirping whistling within went on a bar or two, ceased.The blind of the window was drawn aside. A card UNFURNISHED APARTMENTSslipped from the sash and fell. A plump bare generous arm shone, was seen,held forth from a white petticoatbodice and taut shiftstraps. A womanshand flung forth a coin over the area railings. It fell on the path.One of the urchins ran to it, picked it up and dropped it into theminstrels cap, saying:--There, sir.    * * * * *Katey and Boody Dedalus shoved in the door of the closesteamingkitchen.--Did you put in the books? Boody asked.Maggy at the range rammed down a greyish mass beneath bubblingsuds twice with her potstick and wiped her brow.--They wouldnt give anything on them, she said.Father Conmee walked through Clongowes fields, his thinsockedankles tickled by stubble.--Where did you try? Boody asked.--MGuinnesss.Boody stamped her foot and threw her satchel on the table.--Bad cess to her big face! she cried.Katey went to the range and peered with squinting eyes.--Whats in the pot? she asked.--Shirts, Maggy said.Boody cried angrily:--Crickey, is there nothing for us to eat?Katey, lifting the kettlelid in a pad of her stained skirt, asked:--And whats in this?A heavy fume gushed in answer.--Peasoup, Maggy said.--Where did you get it? Katey asked.--Sister Mary Patrick, Maggy said.The lacquey rang his bell.--Barang!Boody sat down at the table and said hungrily:--Give us it here.Maggy poured yellow thick soup from the kettle into a bowl. Katey,sitting opposite Boody, said quietly, as her fingertip lifted to her mouthrandom crumbs:--A good job we have that much. Wheres Dilly?--Gone to meet father, Maggy said.Boody, breaking big chunks of bread into the yellow soup, added:--Our father who art not in heaven.Maggy, pouring yellow soup in Kateys bowl, exclaimed:--Boody! For shame!A skiff, a crumpled throwaway, Elijah is coming, rode lightly downthe Liffey, under Loopline bridge, shooting the rapids where water chafedaround the bridgepiers, sailing eastward past hulls and anchorchains,between the Customhouse old dock and Georges quay.    * * * * *The blond girl in Thorntons bedded the wicker basket with rustlingfibre. Blazes Boylan handed her the bottle swathed in pink tissue paperand a small jar.--Put these in first, will you? he said.--Yes, sir, the blond girl said. And the fruit on top.--Thatll do, game ball, Blazes Boylan said.She bestowed fat pears neatly, head by tail, and among them ripeshamefaced peaches.Blazes Boylan walked here and there in new tan shoes about thefruitsmelling shop, lifting fruits, young juicy crinkled and plump redtomatoes, sniffing smells.H. E. L. Y.S filed before him, tallwhitehatted, past Tangier lane,plodding towards their goal.He turned suddenly from a chip of strawberries, drew a gold watchfrom his fob and held it at its chains length.--Can you send them by tram? Now?A darkbacked figure under Merchants arch scanned books on thehawkers cart.--Certainly, sir. Is it in the city?--O, yes, Blazes Boylan said. Ten minutes.The blond girl handed him a docket and pencil.--Will you write the address, sir?Blazes Boylan at the counter wrote and pushed the docket to her.--Send it at once, will you? he said. Its for an invalid.--Yes, sir. I will, sir.Blazes Boylan rattled merry money in his trousers pocket.--Whats the damage? he asked.The blond girls slim fingers reckoned the fruits.Blazes Boylan looked into the cut of her blouse. A young pullet. Hetook a red carnation from the tall stemglass.--This for me? he asked gallantly.The blond girl glanced sideways at him, got up regardless, with his tiea bit crooked, blushing.--Yes, sir, she said.Bending archly she reckoned again fat pears and blushing peaches.Blazes Boylan looked in her blouse with more favour, the stalk of thered flower between his smiling teeth.--May I say a word to your telephone, missy? he asked roguishly.    * * * * *--MA! Almidano Artifoni said.He gazed over Stephens shoulder at Goldsmiths knobby poll.Two carfuls of tourists passed slowly, their women sitting fore,gripping the handrests. Palefaces. Mens arms frankly round their stuntedforms. They looked from Trinity to the blind columned porch of the bankof Ireland where pigeons roocoocooed.--ANCHIO HO AVUTO DI QUESTE IDEE, ALMIDANO ARTIFONI SAID, QUAND EROGIOVINE COME LEI. EPPOI MI SONO CONVINTO CHE IL MONDO E UNA BESTIA.PECCATO. PERCHE LA SUA VOCE ... SAREBBE UN CESPITE DI RENDITA, VIA.INVECE, LEI SI SACRIFICA.--SACRIFIZIO INCRUENTO, Stephen said smiling, swaying his ashplant in slowswingswong from its midpoint, lightly.--SPERIAMO, the round mustachioed face said pleasantly. MA, DIA RETTA AME. CI RIFLETTA.By the stern stone hand of Grattan, bidding halt, an Inchicore tramunloaded straggling Highland soldiers of a band.--CI RIFLETTERO, Stephen said, glancing down the solid trouserleg.--MA, SUL SERIO, EH? Almidano Artifoni said.His heavy hand took Stephens firmly. Human eyes. They gazedcuriously an instant and turned quickly towards a Dalkey tram.--ECCOLO, Almidano Artifoni said in friendly haste. Venga a trovarmi e cipensi. ADDIO, CARO.--ARRIVEDERLA, MAESTRO, Stephen said, raising his hat when his hand wasfreed. E GRAZIE.--DI CHE? Almidano Artifoni said. Scusi, eh? TANTE BELLE COSE!Almidano Artifoni, holding up a baton of rolled music as a signal,trotted on stout trousers after the Dalkey tram. In vain he trotted,signalling in vain among the rout of barekneed gillies smugglingimplements of music through Trinity gates.    * * * * *Miss Dunne hid the Capel street library copy of THE WOMAN IN WHITEfar back in her drawer and rolled a sheet of gaudy notepaper into hertypewriter.Too much mystery business in it. Is he in love with that one, Marion?Change it and get another by Mary Cecil Haye.The disk shot down the groove, wobbled a while, ceased and ogledthem: six.Miss Dunne clicked on the keyboard:-- June .Five tallwhitehatted sandwichmen between Monypenys corner andthe slab where Wolfe Tones statue was not, eeled themselves turningH. E. L. Y.S and plodded back as they had come.Then she stared at the large poster of Marie Kendall, charming soubrette,and, listlessly lolling, scribbled on the jotter sixteens and capitalesses. Mustard hair and dauby cheeks. Shes not nicelooking, is she? Theway shes holding up her bit of a skirt. Wonder will that fellow be at theband tonight. If I could get that dressmaker to make a concertina skirtlike Susy Nagles. They kick out grand. Shannon and all the boatclubswells never took his eyes off her. Hope to goodness he wont keep me heretill seven.The telephone rang rudely by her ear.--Hello. Yes, sir. No, sir. Yes, sir. Ill ring them up after five. Onlythose two, sir, for Belfast and Liverpool. All right, sir. Then I can goafter six if youre not back. A quarter after. Yes, sir. Twentyseven andsix. Ill tell him. Yes: one, seven, six.She scribbled three figures on an envelope.--Mr Boylan! Hello! That gentleman from SPORT was in looking for you.Mr Lenehan, yes. He said hell be in the Ormond at four. No, sir. Yes,sir. Ill ring them up after five.    * * * * *Two pink faces turned in the flare of the tiny torch.--Whos that? Ned Lambert asked. Is that Crotty?--Ringabella and Crosshaven, a voice replied groping for foothold.--Hello, Jack, is that yourself? Ned Lambert said, raising in salute hispliant lath among the flickering arches. Come on. Mind your steps there.The vesta in the clergymans uplifted hand consumed itself in a long softflame and was let fall. At their feet its red speck died: and mouldy airclosed round them.--How interesting! a refined accent said in the gloom.--Yes, sir, Ned Lambert said heartily. We are standing in the historiccouncil chamber of saint Marys abbey where silken Thomas proclaimedhimself a rebel in . This is the most historic spot in all Dublin.OMadden Burke is going to write something about it one of these days. Theold bank of Ireland was over the way till the time of the union and theoriginal jews temple was here too before they built their synagogue overin Adelaide road. You were never here before, Jack, were you?--No, Ned.--He rode down through Dame walk, the refined accent said, if mymemory serves me. The mansion of the Kildares was in Thomas court.--Thats right, Ned Lambert said. Thats quite right, sir.--If you will be so kind then, the clergyman said, the next time to allowme perhaps ...--Certainly, Ned Lambert said. Bring the camera whenever you like. Illget those bags cleared away from the windows. You can take it from here orfrom here.In the still faint light he moved about, tapping with his lath the piledseedbags and points of vantage on the floor.From a long face a beard and gaze hung on a chessboard.--Im deeply obliged, Mr Lambert, the clergyman said. I wont trespass onyour valuable time ...--Youre welcome, sir, Ned Lambert said. Drop in whenever you like. Nextweek, say. Can you see?--Yes, yes. Good afternoon, Mr Lambert. Very pleased to have met you.--Pleasure is mine, sir, Ned Lambert answered.He followed his guest to the outlet and then whirled his lath awayamong the pillars. With J. J. OMolloy he came forth slowly into Marysabbey where draymen were loading floats with sacks of carob and palmnutmeal, OConnor, Wexford.He stood to read the card in his hand.--The reverend Hugh C. Love, Rathcoffey. Present address: SaintMichaels, Sallins. Nice young chap he is. Hes writing a book about theFitzgeralds he told me. Hes well up in history, faith.The young woman with slow care detached from her light skirt aclinging twig.--I thought you were at a new gunpowder plot, J. J. OMolloy said.Ned Lambert cracked his fingers in the air.--God! he cried. I forgot to tell him that one about the earl of Kildareafter he set fire to Cashel cathedral. You know that one? IM BLOODY SORRYI DID IT, says he, BUT I DECLARE TO GOD I THOUGHT THE ARCHBISHOP WASINSIDE. He mightnt like it, though. What? God, Ill tell him anyhow.That was the great earl, the Fitzgerald Mor. Hot members they were all ofthem, the Geraldines.The horses he passed started nervously under their slack harness. Heslapped a piebald haunch quivering near him and cried:--Woa, sonny!He turned to J. J. OMolloy and asked:--Well, Jack. What is it? Whats the trouble? Wait awhile. Hold hard.With gaping mouth and head far back he stood still and, after aninstant, sneezed loudly.--Chow! he said. Blast you!--The dust from those sacks, J. J. OMolloy said politely.--No, Ned Lambert gasped, I caught a ... cold night before ... blastyour soul ... night before last ... and there was a hell of a lot ofdraught ...He held his handkerchief ready for the coming ...--I was ... Glasnevin this morning ... poor little ... what do you callhim ... Chow! ... Mother of Moses!    * * * * *Tom Rochford took the top disk from the pile he clasped against hisclaret waistcoat.--See? he said. Say its turn six. In here, see. Turn Now On.He slid it into the left slot for them. It shot down the groove, wobbleda while, ceased, ogling them: six.Lawyers of the past, haughty, pleading, beheld pass from theconsolidated taxing office to Nisi Prius court Richie Goulding carryingthe costbag of Goulding, Collis and Ward and heard rustling from theadmiralty division of kings bench to the court of appeal an elderlyfemale with false teeth smiling incredulously and a black silk skirt ofgreat amplitude.--See? he said. See now the last one I put in is over here: Turns Over.The impact. Leverage, see?He showed them the rising column of disks on the right.--Smart idea, Nosey Flynn said, snuffling. So a fellow coming in late cansee what turn is on and what turns are over.--See? Tom Rochford said.He slid in a disk for himself: and watched it shoot, wobble, ogle, stop:four. Turn Now On.--Ill see him now in the Ormond, Lenehan said, and sound him. One goodturn deserves another.--Do, Tom Rochford said. Tell him Im Boylan with impatience.--Goodnight, MCoy said abruptly. When you two beginNosey Flynn stooped towards the lever, snuffling at it.--But how does it work here, Tommy? he asked.--Tooraloo, Lenehan said. See you later.He followed MCoy out across the tiny square of Crampton court.--Hes a hero, he said simply.--I know, MCoy said. The drain, you mean.--Drain? Lenehan said. It was down a manhole.They passed Dan Lowrys musichall where Marie Kendall, charmingsoubrette, smiled on them from a poster a dauby smile.Going down the path of Sycamore street beside the Empire musichallLenehan showed MCoy how the whole thing was. One of those manholeslike a bloody gaspipe and there was the poor devil stuck down in it, halfchoked with sewer gas. Down went Tom Rochford anyhow, bookys vestand all, with the rope round him. And be damned but he got the rope roundthe poor devil and the two were hauled up.--The act of a hero, he said.At the Dolphin they halted to allow the ambulance car to gallop pastthem for Jervis street.--This way, he said, walking to the right. I want to pop into Lynams tosee Sceptres starting price. Whats the time by your gold watch andchain?MCoy peered into Marcus Tertius Moses sombre office, then atONeills clock.--After three, he said. Whos riding her?--O. Madden, Lenehan said. And a game filly she is.While he waited in Temple bar MCoy dodged a banana peel withgentle pushes of his toe from the path to the gutter. Fellow might damneasy get a nasty fall there coming along tight in the dark.The gates of the drive opened wide to give egress to the viceregalcavalcade.--Even money, Lenehan said returning. I knocked against Bantam Lyons inthere going to back a bloody horse someone gave him that hasnt anearthly. Through here.They went up the steps and under Merchants arch. A darkbackedfigure scanned books on the hawkers cart.--There he is, Lenehan said.--Wonder what hes buying, MCoy said, glancing behind.--LEOPOLDO OR THE BLOOM IS ON THE RYE, Lenehan said.--Hes dead nuts on sales, MCoy said. I was with him one day and hebought a book from an old one in Liffey street for two bob. There werefine plates in it worth double the money, the stars and the moon andcomets with long tails. Astronomy it was about.Lenehan laughed.--Ill tell you a damn good one about comets tails, he said. Come over inthe sun.They crossed to the metal bridge and went along Wellington quay bythe riverwall.Master Patrick Aloysius Dignam came out of Mangans, lateFehrenbachs, carrying a pound and a half of porksteaks.--There was a long spread out at Glencree reformatory, Lenehan saideagerly. The annual dinner, you know. Boiled shirt affair. The lord mayorwas there, Val Dillon it was, and sir Charles Cameron and Dan Dawsonspoke and there was music. Bartell dArcy sang and Benjamin Dollard ...--I know, MCoy broke in. My missus sang there once.--Did she? Lenehan said.A card UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS reappeared on the windowsash ofnumber  Eccles street.He checked his tale a moment but broke out in a wheezy laugh.--But wait till I tell you, he said. Delahunt of Camden street had thecatering and yours truly was chief bottlewasher. Bloom and the wife werethere. Lashings of stuff we put up: port wine and sherry and curacao towhich we did ample justice. Fast and furious it was. After liquids camesolids. Cold joints galore and mince pies ...--I know, MCoy said. The year the missus was there ...Lenehan linked his arm warmly.--But wait till I tell you, he said. We had a midnight lunch too after allthe jollification and when we sallied forth it was blue oclock themorning after the night before. Coming home it was a gorgeous wintersnight on the Featherbed Mountain. Bloom and Chris Callinan were on oneside of the car and I was with the wife on the other. We started singingglees and duets: LO, THE EARLY BEAM OF MORNING. She was well primed with agood load of Delahunts port under her bellyband. Every jolt the bloodycar gave I had her bumping up against me. Hells delights! She has a finepair, God bless her. Like that.He held his caved hands a cubit from him, frowning:--I was tucking the rug under her and settling her boa all the time. Knowwhat I mean?His hands moulded ample curves of air. He shut his eyes tight indelight, his body shrinking, and blew a sweet chirp from his lips.--The lad stood to attention anyhow, he said with a sigh. Shes a gameymare and no mistake. Bloom was pointing out all the stars and the cometsin the heavens to Chris Callinan and the jarvey: the great bear andHercules and the dragon, and the whole jingbang lot. But, by God, I waslost, so to speak, in the milky way. He knows them all, faith. At last shespotted a weeny weeshy one miles away. AND WHAT STAR IS THAT, POLDY? saysshe. By God, she had Bloom cornered. THAT ONE, IS IT? says Chris Callinan,SURE THATS ONLY WHAT YOU MIGHT CALL A PINPRICK. By God, he wasnt farwide of the mark.Lenehan stopped and leaned on the riverwall, panting with softlaughter.--Im weak, he gasped.MCoys white face smiled about it at instants and grew grave.Lenehan walked on again. He lifted his yachtingcap and scratched hishindhead rapidly. He glanced sideways in the sunlight at MCoy.--Hes a cultured allroundman, Bloom is, he said seriously. Hes not oneof your common or garden ... you know ... Theres a touch of the artistabout old Bloom.    * * * * *Mr Bloom turned over idly pages of THE AWFUL DISCLOSURES OF MARIAMONK, then of Aristotles MASTERPIECE. Crooked botched print. Plates:infants cuddled in a ball in bloodred wombs like livers of slaughteredcows. Lots of them like that at this moment all over the world. Allbutting with their skulls to get out of it. Child born every minutesomewhere. Mrs Purefoy.He laid both books aside and glanced at the third: TALES OF THE GHETTOby Leopold von Sacher Masoch.--That I had, he said, pushing it by.The shopman let two volumes fall on the counter.--Them are two good ones, he said.Onions of his breath came across the counter out of his ruinedmouth. He bent to make a bundle of the other books, hugged them againsthis unbuttoned waistcoat and bore them off behind the dingy curtain.On OConnell bridge many persons observed the grave deportmentand gay apparel of Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c.Mr Bloom, alone, looked at the titles. FAIR TYRANTS by James Lovebirch.Know the kind that is. Had it? Yes.He opened it. Thought so.A womans voice behind the dingy curtain. Listen: the man.No: she wouldnt like that much. Got her it once.He read the other title: SWEETS OF SIN. More in her line. Let us see.He read where his finger opened.--ALL THE DOLLARBILLS HER HUSBAND GAVE HER WERE SPENT IN THE STORES ONWONDROUS GOWNS AND COSTLIEST FRILLIES. FOR HIM! FOR RAOUL!Yes. This. Here. Try.--HER MOUTH GLUED ON HIS IN A LUSCIOUS VOLUPTUOUS KISS WHILE HIS HANDSFELT FOR THE OPULENT CURVES INSIDE HER DESHABILLE.Yes. Take this. The end.--YOU ARE LATE, HE SPOKE HOARSELY, EYING HER WITH A SUSPICIOUS GLARE.THE BEAUTIFUL WOMAN THREW OFF HER SABLETRIMMED WRAP, DISPLAYING HERQUEENLY SHOULDERS AND HEAVING EMBONPOINT. AN IMPERCEPTIBLE SMILE PLAYEDROUND HER PERFECT LIPS AS SHE TURNED TO HIM CALMLY.Mr Bloom read again: THE BEAUTIFUL WOMAN.Warmth showered gently over him, cowing his flesh. Flesh yieldedamply amid rumpled clothes: whites of eyes swooning up. His nostrilsarched themselves for prey. Melting breast ointments (FOR HIM! FORRAOUL!). Armpits oniony sweat. Fishgluey slime (HER HEAVING EMBONPOINT!).Feel! Press! Crushed! Sulphur dung of lions!Young! Young!An elderly female, no more young, left the building of the courts ofchancery, kings bench, exchequer and common pleas, having heard in thelord chancellors court the case in lunacy of Potterton, in the admiraltydivision the summons, exparte motion, of the owners of the Lady Cairnsversus the owners of the barque Mona, in the court of appeal reservationof judgment in the case of Harvey versus the Ocean Accident and GuaranteeCorporation.Phlegmy coughs shook the air of the bookshop, bulging out the dingycurtains. The shopmans uncombed grey head came out and his unshavenreddened face, coughing. He raked his throat rudely, puked phlegm on thefloor. He put his boot on what he had spat, wiping his sole along it, andbent, showing a rawskinned crown, scantily haired.Mr Bloom beheld it.Mastering his troubled breath, he said:--Ill take this one.The shopman lifted eyes bleared with old rheum.--SWEETS OF SIN, he said, tapping on it. Thats a good one.    * * * * *The lacquey by the door of Dillons auctionrooms shook his handbelltwice again and viewed himself in the chalked mirror of the cabinet.Dilly Dedalus, loitering by the curbstone, heard the beats of the bell,the cries of the auctioneer within. Four and nine. Those lovely curtains.Five shillings. Cosy curtains. Selling new at two guineas. Any advance onfive shillings? Going for five shillings.The lacquey lifted his handbell and shook it:--Barang!Bang of the lastlap bell spurred the halfmile wheelmen to their sprint.J. A. Jackson, W. E. Wylie, A. Munro and H. T. Gahan, their stretchednecks wagging, negotiated the curve by the College library.Mr Dedalus, tugging a long moustache, came round from Williamssrow. He halted near his daughter.--Its time for you, she said.--Stand up straight for the love of the lord Jesus, Mr Dedalus said. Are youtrying to imitate your uncle John, the cornetplayer, head upon shoulder?Melancholy God!Dilly shrugged her shoulders. Mr Dedalus placed his hands on themand held them back.--Stand up straight, girl, he said. Youll get curvature of the spine.Do you know what you look like?He let his head sink suddenly down and forward, hunching hisshoulders and dropping his underjaw.--Give it up, father, Dilly said. All the people are looking at you.Mr Dedalus drew himself upright and tugged again at his moustache.--Did you get any money? Dilly asked.--Where would I get money? Mr Dedalus said. There is no-one in Dublinwould lend me fourpence.--You got some, Dilly said, looking in his eyes.--How do you know that? Mr Dedalus asked, his tongue in his cheek.Mr Kernan, pleased with the order he had booked, walked boldlyalong Jamess street.--I know you did, Dilly answered. Were you in the Scotch house now?--I was not, then, Mr Dedalus said, smiling. Was it the little nuns taughtyou to be so saucy? Here.He handed her a shilling.--See if you can do anything with that, he said.--I suppose you got five, Dilly said. Give me more than that.--Wait awhile, Mr Dedalus said threateningly. Youre like the rest ofthem, are you? An insolent pack of little bitches since your poor motherdied. But wait awhile. Youll all get a short shrift and a long day fromme. Low blackguardism! Im going to get rid of you. Wouldnt care if I wasstretched out stiff. Hes dead. The man upstairs is dead.He left her and walked on. Dilly followed quickly and pulled his coat.--Well, what is it? he said, stopping.The lacquey rang his bell behind their backs.--Barang!--Curse your bloody blatant soul, Mr Dedalus cried, turning on him.The lacquey, aware of comment, shook the lolling clapper of his bellbut feebly:--Bang!Mr Dedalus stared at him.--Watch him, he said. Its instructive. I wonder will he allow us to talk.--You got more than that, father, Dilly said.--Im going to show you a little trick, Mr Dedalus said. Ill leave youall where Jesus left the jews. Look, theres all I have. I got twoshillings from Jack Power and I spent twopence for a shave for thefuneral.He drew forth a handful of copper coins, nervously.--Cant you look for some money somewhere? Dilly said.Mr Dedalus thought and nodded.--I will, he said gravely. I looked all along the gutter in OConnellstreet. Ill try this one now.--Youre very funny, Dilly said, grinning.--Here, Mr Dedalus said, handing her two pennies. Get a glass of milk foryourself and a bun or a something. Ill be home shortly.He put the other coins in his pocket and started to walk on.The viceregal cavalcade passed, greeted by obsequious policemen, outof Parkgate.--Im sure you have another shilling, Dilly said.The lacquey banged loudly.Mr Dedalus amid the din walked off, murmuring to himself with apursing mincing mouth gently:--The little nuns! Nice little things! O, sure they wouldnt do anything!O, sure they wouldnt really! Is it little sister Monica!    * * * * *From the sundial towards Jamess gate walked Mr Kernan, pleasedwith the order he had booked for Pulbrook Robertson, boldly alongJamess street, past Shackletons offices. Got round him all right. How doyou do, Mr Crimmins? First rate, sir. I was afraid you might be up in yourother establishment in Pimlico. How are things going? Just keeping alive.Lovely weather were having. Yes, indeed. Good for the country. Thosefarmers are always grumbling. Ill just take a thimbleful of your bestgin, Mr Crimmins. A small gin, sir. Yes, sir. Terrible affair that GeneralSlocum explosion. Terrible, terrible! A thousand casualties. Andheartrending scenes. Men trampling down women and children. Most brutalthing. What do they say was the cause? Spontaneous combustion. Mostscandalous revelation. Not a single lifeboat would float and the firehoseall burst. What I cant understand is how the inspectors ever allowed aboat like that ... Now, youre talking straight, Mr Crimmins. You knowwhy? Palm oil. Is that a fact? Without a doubt. Well now, look at that.And America they say is the land of the free. I thought we were bad here.I smiled at him. AMERICA, I said quietly, just like that. WHAT IS IT? THESWEEPINGS OF EVERY COUNTRY INCLUDING OUR OWN. ISNT THAT TRUE? Thatsa fact.Graft, my dear sir. Well, of course, where theres money going theresalways someone to pick it up.Saw him looking at my frockcoat. Dress does it. Nothing like adressy appearance. Bowls them over.--Hello, Simon, Father Cowley said. How are things?--Hello, Bob, old man, Mr Dedalus answered, stopping.Mr Kernan halted and preened himself before the sloping mirror of PeterKennedy, hairdresser. Stylish coat, beyond a doubt. Scott of Dawsonstreet. Well worth the half sovereign I gave Neary for it. Never builtunder three guineas. Fits me down to the ground. Some Kildare street clubtoff had it probably. John Mulligan, the manager of the Hibernian bank,gave me a very sharp eye yesterday on Carlisle bridge as if he rememberedme.Aham! Must dress the character for those fellows. Knight of the road.Gentleman. And now, Mr Crimmins, may we have the honour of yourcustom again, sir. The cup that cheers but not inebriates, as the oldsaying has it.North wall and sir John Rogersons quay, with hulls andanchorchains, sailing westward, sailed by a skiff, a crumpled throwaway,rocked on the ferrywash, Elijah is coming.Mr Kernan glanced in farewell at his image. High colour, of course.Grizzled moustache. Returned Indian officer. Bravely he bore his stumpybody forward on spatted feet, squaring his shoulders. Is that NedLamberts brother over the way, Sam? What? Yes. Hes as like it as damnit. No. The windscreen of that motorcar in the sun there. Just a flashlike that. Damn like him.Aham! Hot spirit of juniper juice warmed his vitals and his breath. Gooddrop of gin, that was. His frocktails winked in bright sunshine to hisfat strut.Down there Emmet was hanged, drawn and quartered. Greasy blackrope. Dogs licking the blood off the street when the lord lieutenantswife drove by in her noddy.Bad times those were. Well, well. Over and done with. Great toperstoo. Fourbottle men.Let me see. Is he buried in saint Michans? Or no, there was amidnight burial in Glasnevin. Corpse brought in through a secret door inthe wall. Dignam is there now. Went out in a puff. Well, well. Better turndown here. Make a detour.Mr Kernan turned and walked down the slope of Watling street bythe corner of Guinnesss visitors waitingroom. Outside the DublinDistillers Companys stores an outside car without fare or jarvey stood,the reins knotted to the wheel. Damn dangerous thing. Some Tipperarybosthoon endangering the lives of the citizens. Runaway horse.Denis Breen with his tomes, weary of having waited an hour in JohnHenry Mentons office, led his wife over OConnell bridge, bound for theoffice of Messrs Collis and Ward.Mr Kernan approached Island street.Times of the troubles. Must ask Ned Lambert to lend me those reminiscencesof sir Jonah Barrington. When you look back on it all now in a kind ofretrospective arrangement. Gaming at Dalys. No cardsharping then.One of those fellows got his hand nailed to the table by a dagger.Somewhere here lord Edward Fitzgerald escaped from major Sirr. Stablesbehind Moira house.Damn good gin that was.Fine dashing young nobleman. Good stock, of course. That ruffian, thatsham squire, with his violet gloves gave him away. Course they were onthe wrong side. They rose in dark and evil days. Fine poem that is:Ingram. They were gentlemen. Ben Dollard does sing that ballad touchingly.Masterly rendition.    AT THE SIEGE OF ROSS DID MY FATHER FALL.A cavalcade in easy trot along Pembroke quay passed, outridersleaping, leaping in their, in their saddles. Frockcoats. Cream sunshades.Mr Kernan hurried forward, blowing pursily.His Excellency! Too bad! Just missed that by a hair. Damn it! What a pity!    * * * * *Stephen Dedalus watched through the webbed window the lapidarysfingers prove a timedulled chain. Dust webbed the window and theshowtrays. Dust darkened the toiling fingers with their vulture nails.Dust slept on dull coils of bronze and silver, lozenges of cinnabar,on rubies, leprous and winedark stones.Born all in the dark wormy earth, cold specks of fire, evil, lightsshining in the darkness. Where fallen archangels flung the stars of theirbrows. Muddy swinesnouts, hands, root and root, gripe and wrest them.She dances in a foul gloom where gum bums with garlic. Asailorman, rustbearded, sips from a beaker rum and eyes her. A long andseafed silent rut. She dances, capers, wagging her sowish haunches and herhips, on her gross belly flapping a ruby egg.Old Russell with a smeared shammy rag burnished again his gem,turned it and held it at the point of his Moses beard. Grandfather apegloating on a stolen hoard.And you who wrest old images from the burial earth? The brainsickwords of sophists: Antisthenes. A lore of drugs. Orient and immortal wheatstanding from everlasting to everlasting.Two old women fresh from their whiff of the briny trudged throughIrishtown along London bridge road, one with a sanded tired umbrella, onewith a midwifes bag in which eleven cockles rolled.The whirr of flapping leathern bands and hum of dynamos from thepowerhouse urged Stephen to be on. Beingless beings. Stop! Throb alwayswithout you and the throb always within. Your heart you sing of. I betweenthem. Where? Between two roaring worlds where they swirl, I. Shatterthem, one and both. But stun myself too in the blow. Shatter me you whocan. Bawd and butcher were the words. I say! Not yet awhile. A lookaround.Yes, quite true. Very large and wonderful and keeps famous time. Yousay right, sir. A Monday morning, twas so, indeed.Stephen went down Bedford row, the handle of the ash clackingagainst his shoulderblade. In Clohisseys window a faded O print ofHeenan boxing Sayers held his eye. Staring backers with square hats stoodround the roped prizering. The heavyweights in tight loincloths proposedgently each to other his bulbous fists. And they are throbbing: heroeshearts.He turned and halted by the slanted bookcart.--Twopence each, the huckster said. Four for sixpence.Tattered pages. THE IRISH BEEKEEPER. LIFE AND MIRACLES OF THE CURE OFARS. POCKET GUIDE TO KILLARNEY.I might find here one of my pawned schoolprizes. STEPHANO DEDALO,ALUMNO OPTIMO, PALMAM FERENTI.Father Conmee, having read his little hours, walked through thehamlet of Donnycarney, murmuring vespers.Binding too good probably. What is this? Eighth and ninth book ofMoses. Secret of all secrets. Seal of King David. Thumbed pages: read andread. Who has passed here before me? How to soften chapped hands.Recipe for white wine vinegar. How to win a womans love. For me this.Say the following talisman three times with hands folded:--SE EL YILO NEBRAKADA FEMININUM! AMOR ME SOLO! SANKTUS! AMEN.Who wrote this? Charms and invocations of the most blessed abbotPeter Salanka to all true believers divulged. As good as any other abbotscharms, as mumbling Joachims. Down, baldynoddle, or well wool your wool.--What are you doing here, Stephen?Dillys high shoulders and shabby dress.Shut the book quick. Dont let see.--What are you doing? Stephen said.A Stuart face of nonesuch Charles, lank locks falling at its sides. Itglowed as she crouched feeding the fire with broken boots. I told her ofParis. Late lieabed under a quilt of old overcoats, fingering a pinchbeckbracelet, Dan Kellys token. NEBRAKADA FEMININUM.--What have you there? Stephen asked.--I bought it from the other cart for a penny, Dilly said, laughingnervously. Is it any good?My eyes they say she has. Do others see me so? Quick, far anddaring. Shadow of my mind.He took the coverless book from her hand. Chardenals French primer.--What did you buy that for? he asked. To learn French?She nodded, reddening and closing tight her lips.Show no surprise. Quite natural.--Here, Stephen said. Its all right. Mind Maggy doesnt pawn it on you. Isuppose all my books are gone.--Some, Dilly said. We had to.She is drowning. Agenbite. Save her. Agenbite. All against us. She willdrown me with her, eyes and hair. Lank coils of seaweed hair around me,my heart, my soul. Salt green death.We.Agenbite of inwit. Inwits agenbite.Misery! Misery!    * * * * *--Hello, Simon, Father Cowley said. How are things?--Hello, Bob, old man, Mr Dedalus answered, stopping.They clasped hands loudly outside Reddy and Daughters. FatherCowley brushed his moustache often downward with a scooping hand.--Whats the best news? Mr Dedalus said.--Why then not much, Father Cowley said. Im barricaded up, Simon, withtwo men prowling around the house trying to effect an entrance.--Jolly, Mr Dedalus said. Who is it?--O, Father Cowley said. A certain gombeen man of our acquaintance.--With a broken back, is it? Mr Dedalus asked.--The same, Simon, Father Cowley answered. Reuben of that ilk. Im justwaiting for Ben Dollard. Hes going to say a word to long John to get himto take those two men off. All I want is a little time.He looked with vague hope up and down the quay, a big apple bulgingin his neck.--I know, Mr Dedalus said, nodding. Poor old bockedy Ben! Hes alwaysdoing a good turn for someone. Hold hard!He put on his glasses and gazed towards the metal bridge an instant.--There he is, by God, he said, arse and pockets.Ben Dollards loose blue cutaway and square hat above large slopscrossed the quay in full gait from the metal bridge. He came towards themat an amble, scratching actively behind his coattails.As he came near Mr Dedalus greeted:--Hold that fellow with the bad trousers.--Hold him now, Ben Dollard said.Mr Dedalus eyed with cold wandering scorn various points of BenDollards figure. Then, turning to Father Cowley with a nod, he mutteredsneeringly:--Thats a pretty garment, isnt it, for a summers day?--Why, God eternally curse your soul, Ben Dollard growled furiously, Ithrew out more clothes in my time than you ever saw.He stood beside them beaming, on them first and on his roomyclothes from points of which Mr Dedalus flicked fluff, saying:--They were made for a man in his health, Ben, anyhow.--Bad luck to the jewman that made them, Ben Dollard said. Thanks be toGod hes not paid yet.--And how is that BASSO PROFONDO, Benjamin? Father Cowley asked.Cashel Boyle OConnor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell, murmuring,glassyeyed, strode past the Kildare street club.Ben Dollard frowned and, making suddenly a chanters mouth, gaveforth a deep note.--Aw! he said.--Thats the style, Mr Dedalus said, nodding to its drone.--What about that? Ben Dollard said. Not too dusty? What?He turned to both.--Thatll do, Father Cowley said, nodding also.The reverend Hugh C. Love walked from the old chapterhouse ofsaint Marys abbey past James and Charles Kennedys, rectifiers, attendedby Geraldines tall and personable, towards the Tholsel beyond the ford ofhurdles.Ben Dollard with a heavy list towards the shopfronts led them forward,his joyful fingers in the air.--Come along with me to the subsheriffs office, he said. I want to showyou the new beauty Rock has for a bailiff. Hes a cross between Lobengulaand Lynchehaun. Hes well worth seeing, mind you. Come along. I saw JohnHenry Menton casually in the Bodega just now and it will cost me a fall ifI dont ... Wait awhile ... Were on the right lay, Bob, believe you me.--For a few days tell him, Father Cowley said anxiously.Ben Dollard halted and stared, his loud orifice open, a danglingbutton of his coat wagging brightbacked from its thread as he wiped awaythe heavy shraums that clogged his eyes to hear aright.--What few days? he boomed. Hasnt your landlord distrained for rent?--He has, Father Cowley said.--Then our friends writ is not worth the paper its printed on, Ben Dollardsaid. The landlord has the prior claim. I gave him all the particulars. Windsor avenue. Love is the name?--Thats right, Father Cowley said. The reverend Mr Love. Hes a ministerin the country somewhere. But are you sure of that?--You can tell Barabbas from me, Ben Dollard said, that he can put thatwrit where Jacko put the nuts.He led Father Cowley boldly forward, linked to his bulk.--Filberts I believe they were, Mr Dedalus said, as he dropped his glasseson his coatfront, following them.    * * * * *--The youngster will be all right, Martin Cunningham said, as they passedout of the Castleyard gate.The policeman touched his forehead.--God bless you, Martin Cunningham said, cheerily.He signed to the waiting jarvey who chucked at the reins and set ontowards Lord Edward street.Bronze by gold, Miss Kennedys head by Miss Douces head,appeared above the crossblind of the Ormond hotel.--Yes, Martin Cunningham said, fingering his beard. I wrote to FatherConmee and laid the whole case before him.--You could try our friend, Mr Power suggested backward.--Boyd? Martin Cunningham said shortly. Touch me not.John Wyse Nolan, lagging behind, reading the list, came after themquickly down Cork hill.On the steps of the City hall Councillor Nannetti, descending, hailedAlderman Cowley and Councillor Abraham Lyon ascending.The castle car wheeled empty into upper Exchange street.--Look here, Martin, John Wyse Nolan said, overtaking them at the MAILoffice. I see Bloom put his name down for five shillings.--Quite right, Martin Cunningham said, taking the list. And put down thefive shillings too.--Without a second word either, Mr Power said.--Strange but true, Martin Cunningham added.John Wyse Nolan opened wide eyes.--Ill say there is much kindness in the jew, he quoted, elegantly.They went down Parliament street.--Theres Jimmy Henry, Mr Power said, just heading for Kavanaghs.--Righto, Martin Cunningham said. Here goes.Outside LA MAISON CLAIRE Blazes Boylan waylaid Jack Mooneysbrother-in-law, humpy, tight, making for the liberties.John Wyse Nolan fell back with Mr Power, while MartinCunningham took the elbow of a dapper little man in a shower of hail suit,who walked uncertainly, with hasty steps past Micky Andersons watches.--The assistant town clerks corns are giving him some trouble, John WyseNolan told Mr Power.They followed round the corner towards James Kavanaghswinerooms. The empty castle car fronted them at rest in Essex gate. MartinCunningham, speaking always, showed often the list at which Jimmy Henrydid not glance.--And long John Fanning is here too, John Wyse Nolan said, as large aslife.The tall form of long John Fanning filled the doorway where hestood.--Good day, Mr Subsheriff, Martin Cunningham said, as all halted andgreeted.Long John Fanning made no way for them. He removed his large Henry Claydecisively and his large fierce eyes scowled intelligently over alltheir faces.--Are the conscript fathers pursuing their peaceful deliberations? he saidwith rich acrid utterance to the assistant town clerk.Hell open to christians they were having, Jimmy Henry said pettishly,about their damned Irish language. Where was the marshal, he wanted toknow, to keep order in the council chamber. And old Barlow themacebearer laid up with asthma, no mace on the table, nothing in order, noquorum even, and Hutchinson, the lord mayor, in Llandudno and littleLorcan Sherlock doing LOCUM TENENS for him. Damned Irish language,language of our forefathers.Long John Fanning blew a plume of smoke from his lips.Martin Cunningham spoke by turns, twirling the peak of his beard, tothe assistant town clerk and the subsheriff, while John Wyse Nolan heldhis peace.--What Dignam was that? long John Fanning asked.Jimmy Henry made a grimace and lifted his left foot.--O, my corns! he said plaintively. Come upstairs for goodness sake tillI sit down somewhere. Uff! Ooo! Mind!Testily he made room for himself beside long John Fannings flankand passed in and up the stairs.--Come on up, Martin Cunningham said to the subsheriff. I dont thinkyou knew him or perhaps you did, though.With John Wyse Nolan Mr Power followed them in.--Decent little soul he was, Mr Power said to the stalwart back of longJohn Fanning ascending towards long John Fanning in the mirror.--Rather lowsized. Dignam of Mentons office that was, MartinCunningham said. Long John Fanning could not remember him. Clatter of horsehoofs sounded from the air.--Whats that? Martin Cunningham said.All turned where they stood. John Wyse Nolan came down again.From the cool shadow of the doorway he saw the horses pass Parliamentstreet, harness and glossy pasterns in sunlight shimmering. Gaily theywent past before his cool unfriendly eyes, not quickly. In saddles of theleaders, leaping leaders, rode outriders.--What was it? Martin Cunningham asked, as they went on up thestaircase.--The lord lieutenantgeneral and general governor of Ireland, John WyseNolan answered from the stairfoot.    * * * * *As they trod across the thick carpet Buck Mulligan whispered behindhis Panama to Haines:--Parnells brother. There in the corner.They chose a small table near the window, opposite a longfaced manwhose beard and gaze hung intently down on a chessboard.--Is that he? Haines asked, twisting round in his seat.--Yes, Mulligan said. Thats John Howard, his brother, our city marshal.John Howard Parnell translated a white bishop quietly and his greyclaw went up again to his forehead whereat it rested. An instant after,under its screen, his eyes looked quickly, ghostbright, at his foe andfell once more upon a working corner.--Ill take a MELANGE, Haines said to the waitress.--Two MELANGES, Buck Mulligan said. And bring us some scones and butterand some cakes as well.When she had gone he said, laughing:--We call it D.B.C. because they have damn bad cakes. O, but you missedDedalus on HAMLET.Haines opened his newbought book.--Im sorry, he said. Shakespeare is the happy huntingground of all mindsthat have lost their balance.The onelegged sailor growled at the area of  Nelson street:--ENGLAND EXPECTS ...Buck Mulligans primrose waistcoat shook gaily to his laughter.--You should see him, he said, when his body loses its balance. WanderingAengus I call him.--I am sure he has an IDEE FIXE, Haines said, pinching his chinthoughtfully with thumb and forefinger. Now I am speculating what it wouldbe likely to be. Such persons always have.Buck Mulligan bent across the table gravely.--They drove his wits astray, he said, by visions of hell. He will nevercapture the Attic note. The note of Swinburne, of all poets, the whitedeath and the ruddy birth. That is his tragedy. He can never be a poet.The joy of creation ...--Eternal punishment, Haines said, nodding curtly. I see. I tackled himthis morning on belief. There was something on his mind, I saw. Itsrather interesting because professor Pokorny of Vienna makes aninteresting point out of that.Buck Mulligans watchful eyes saw the waitress come. He helped herto unload her tray.--He can find no trace of hell in ancient Irish myth, Haines said, amidthe cheerful cups. The moral idea seems lacking, the sense of destiny, ofretribution. Rather strange he should have just that fixed idea. Does hewrite anything for your movement?He sank two lumps of sugar deftly longwise through the whippedcream. Buck Mulligan slit a steaming scone in two and plastered butterover its smoking pith. He bit off a soft piece hungrily.--Ten years, he said, chewing and laughing. He is going to write somethingin ten years.--Seems a long way off, Haines said, thoughtfully lifting his spoon.Still, I shouldnt wonder if he did after all.He tasted a spoonful from the creamy cone of his cup.--This is real Irish cream I take it, he said with forbearance.I dont want to be imposed on.Elijah, skiff, light crumpled throwaway, sailed eastward by flanks ofships and trawlers, amid an archipelago of corks, beyond new Wappingstreet past Bensons ferry, and by the threemasted schooner ROSEVEAN fromBridgwater with bricks.    * * * * *Almidano Artifoni walked past Holles street, past Sewells yard.Behind him Cashel Boyle OConnor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell, withstickumbrelladustcoat dangling, shunned the lamp before Mr Law Smithshouse and, crossing, walked along Merrion square. Distantly behind him ablind stripling tapped his way by the wall of College park.Cashel Boyle OConnor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell walked as far asMr Lewis Werners cheerful windows, then turned and strode back alongMerrion square, his stickumbrelladustcoat dangling.At the corner of Wildes house he halted, frowned at Elijahs nameannounced on the Metropolitan hall, frowned at the distant pleasance ofdukes lawn. His eyeglass flashed frowning in the sun. With ratsteethbared he muttered:--COACTUS VOLUI.He strode on for Clare street, grinding his fierce word.As he strode past Mr Blooms dental windows the sway of hisdustcoat brushed rudely from its angle a slender tapping cane and sweptonwards, having buffeted a thewless body. The blind stripling turned hissickly face after the striding form.--Gods curse on you, he said sourly, whoever you are! Youre blinder norI am, you bitchs bastard!    * * * * *Opposite Ruggy ODonohoes Master Patrick Aloysius Dignam,pawing the pound and a half of Mangans, late Fehrenbachs, porksteaks hehad been sent for, went along warm Wicklow street dawdling. It was tooblooming dull sitting in the parlour with Mrs Stoer and Mrs Quigley andMrs MacDowell and the blind down and they all at their sniffles andsipping sups of the superior tawny sherry uncle Barney brought fromTunneys. And they eating crumbs of the cottage fruitcake, jawing thewhole blooming time and sighing.After Wicklow lane the window of Madame Doyle, courtdressmilliner, stopped him. He stood looking in at the two puckers stripped totheir pelts and putting up their props. From the sidemirrors two mourningMasters Dignam gaped silently. Myler Keogh, Dublins pet lamb, will meetsergeantmajor Bennett, the Portobello bruiser, for a purse of fiftysovereigns. Gob, thatd be a good pucking match to see. Myler Keogh,thats the chap sparring out to him with the green sash. Two bar entrance,soldiers half price. I could easy do a bunk on ma. Master Dignam on hisleft turned as he turned. Thats me in mourning. When is it? May thetwentysecond. Sure, the blooming thing is all over. He turned to the rightand on his right Master Dignam turned, his cap awry, his collar stickingup. Buttoning it down, his chin lifted, he saw the image of Marie Kendall,charming soubrette, beside the two puckers. One of them mots that do be inthe packets of fags Stoer smokes that his old fellow welted hell out ofhim for one time he found out.Master Dignam got his collar down and dawdled on. The best puckergoing for strength was Fitzsimons. One puck in the wind from that fellowwould knock you into the middle of next week, man. But the best puckerfor science was Jem Corbet before Fitzsimons knocked the stuffings out ofhim, dodging and all.In Grafton street Master Dignam saw a red flower in a toffs mouthand a swell pair of kicks on him and he listening to what the drunk wastelling him and grinning all the time.No Sandymount tram.Master Dignam walked along Nassau street, shifted the porksteaks tohis other hand. His collar sprang up again and he tugged it down. Theblooming stud was too small for the buttonhole of the shirt, blooming endto it. He met schoolboys with satchels. Im not going tomorrow either,stay away till Monday. He met other schoolboys. Do they notice Im inmourning? Uncle Barney said hed get it into the paper tonight. Thentheyll all see it in the paper and read my name printed and pas name.His face got all grey instead of being red like it was and there was afly walking over it up to his eye. The scrunch that was when they werescrewing the screws into the coffin: and the bumps when they were bringingit downstairs.Pa was inside it and ma crying in the parlour and uncle Barney tellingthe men how to get it round the bend. A big coffin it was, and high andheavylooking. How was that? The last night pa was boosed he was standingon the landing there bawling out for his boots to go out to Tunneys forto boose more and he looked butty and short in his shirt. Never see himagain. Death, that is. Pa is dead. My father is dead. He told me to be agood son to ma. I couldnt hear the other things he said but I saw histongue and his teeth trying to say it better. Poor pa. That was Mr Dignam,my father. I hope hes in purgatory now because he went to confession toFather Conroy on Saturday night.    * * * * *William Humble, earl of Dudley, and lady Dudley, accompanied bylieutenantcolonel Heseltine, drove out after luncheon from the viceregallodge. In the following carriage were the honourable Mrs Paget, Miss deCourcy and the honourable Gerald Ward A.D.C. in attendance.The cavalcade passed out by the lower gate of Phoenix park salutedby obsequious policemen and proceeded past Kingsbridge along thenorthern quays. The viceroy was most cordially greeted on his way throughthe metropolis. At Bloody bridge Mr Thomas Kernan beyond the rivergreeted him vainly from afar Between Queens and Whitworth bridges lordDudleys viceregal carriages passed and were unsaluted by Mr DudleyWhite, B. L., M. A., who stood on Arran quay outside Mrs M. E. Whites,the pawnbrokers, at the corner of Arran street west stroking his nosewith his forefinger, undecided whether he should arrive at Phibsboroughmore quickly by a triple change of tram or by hailing a car or on footthrough Smithfield, Constitution hill and Broadstone terminus. In theporch of Four Courts Richie Goulding with the costbag of Goulding,Collis and Ward saw him with surprise. Past Richmond bridge at thedoorstep of the office of Reuben J Dodd, solicitor, agent for thePatriotic Insurance Company, an elderly female about to enter changedher plan and retracing her steps by Kings windows smiled credulouslyon the representative of His Majesty. From its sluice in Wood quaywall under Tom Devans office Poddle river hung out in fealty a tongueof liquid sewage. Above the crossblind of the Ormond hotel, gold bybronze, Miss Kennedys head by Miss Douces head watched and admired.On Ormond quay Mr Simon Dedalus, steering his way from the greenhousefor the subsheriffs office, stood still in midstreet and brought hishat low. His Excellency graciously returned Mr Dedalus greeting. FromCahills corner the reverend Hugh C. Love, M.A., made obeisanceunperceived, mindful of lords deputies whose hands benignanthad held of yore rich advowsons. On Grattan bridge Lenehan and MCoy,taking leave of each other, watched the carriages go by. Passing by RogerGreenes office and Dollards big red printinghouse Gerty MacDowell,carrying the Catesbys cork lino letters for her father who was laid up,knew by the style it was the lord and lady lieutenant but she couldnt seewhat Her Excellency had on because the tram and Springs big yellowfurniture van had to stop in front of her on account of its being the lordlieutenant. Beyond Lundy Foots from the shaded door of Kavanaghswinerooms John Wyse Nolan smiled with unseen coldness towards the lordlieutenantgeneral and general governor of Ireland. The Right HonourableWilliam Humble, earl of Dudley, G. C. V. O., passed Micky Andersonsall times ticking watches and Henry and Jamess wax smartsuitedfreshcheeked models, the gentleman Henry, DERNIER CRI James. Over againstDame gate Tom Rochford and Nosey Flynn watched the approach of thecavalcade. Tom Rochford, seeing the eyes of lady Dudley fixed on him,took his thumbs quickly out of the pockets of his claret waistcoat anddoffed his cap to her. A charming SOUBRETTE, great Marie Kendall, withdauby cheeks and lifted skirt smiled daubily from her poster upon WilliamHumble, earl of Dudley, and upon lieutenantcolonel H. G. Heseltine, andalso upon the honourable Gerald Ward A. D. C. From the window of theD. B. C. Buck Mulligan gaily, and Haines gravely, gazed down on theviceregal equipage over the shoulders of eager guests, whose mass of formsdarkened the chessboard whereon John Howard Parnell looked intently. InFowness street Dilly Dedalus, straining her sight upward fromChardenals first French primer, saw sunshades spanned and wheelspokesspinning in the glare. John Henry Menton, filling the doorway ofCommercial Buildings, stared from winebig oyster eyes, holding a fat goldhunter watch not looked at in his fat left hand not feeling it. Where theforeleg of King Billys horse pawed the air Mrs Breen plucked herhastening husband back from under the hoofs of the outriders. She shoutedin his ear the tidings. Understanding, he shifted his tomes to his leftbreast and saluted the second carriage. The honourable Gerald Ward A.D.C.,agreeably surprised, made haste to reply. At Ponsonbys corner a jadedwhite flagon H. halted and four tallhatted white flagons halted behindhim, E.L.YS, while outriders pranced past and carriages. OppositePigotts music warerooms Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c,gaily apparelled, gravely walked, outpassed by a viceroy and unobserved.By the provosts wall came jauntily Blazes Boylan, stepping in tan shoesand socks with skyblue clocks to the refrain of MY GIRLS A YORKSHIREGIRL.Blazes Boylan presented to the leaders skyblue frontlets and highaction a skyblue tie, a widebrimmed straw hat at a rakish angle and a suitof indigo serge. His hands in his jacket pockets forgot to salute but heoffered to the three ladies the bold admiration of his eyes and the redflower between his lips. As they drove along Nassau street His Excellencydrew the attention of his bowing consort to the programme of music whichwas being discoursed in College park. Unseen brazen highland laddiesblared and drumthumped after the CORTEGE:    BUT THOUGH SHES A FACTORY LASS    AND WEARS NO FANCY CLOTHES.    BARAABUM.    YET IVE A SORT OF A    YORKSHIRE RELISH FOR    MY LITTLE YORKSHIRE ROSE.    BARAABUM.Thither of the wall the quartermile flat handicappers, M. C. Green, H.Shrift, T. M. Patey, C. Scaife, J. B. Jeffs, G. N. Morphy, F. Stevenson,C. Adderly and W. C. Huggard, started in pursuit. Striding past Finnshotel Cashel Boyle OConnor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell stared through afierce eyeglass across the carriages at the head of Mr M. E. Solomons inthe window of the Austro-Hungarian viceconsulate. Deep in Leinster streetby Trinitys postern a loyal kings man, Hornblower, touched his tallyhocap. As the glossy horses pranced by Merrion square Master PatrickAloysius Dignam, waiting, saw salutes being given to the gent with thetopper and raised also his new black cap with fingers greased byporksteak paper. His collar too sprang up. The viceroy, on his way toinaugurate the Mirus bazaar in aid of funds for Mercers hospital,drove with his following towards Lower Mount street. He passed a blindstripling opposite Broadbents. In Lower Mount street a pedestrian in abrown macintosh, eating dry bread, passed swiftly and unscathed across theviceroys path. At the Royal Canal bridge, from his hoarding, Mr EugeneStratton, his blub lips agrin, bade all comers welcome to Pembroketownship. At Haddington road corner two sanded women halted themselves,an umbrella and a bag in which eleven cockles rolled to view with wonderthe lord mayor and lady mayoress without his golden chain. OnNorthumberland and Lansdowne roads His Excellency acknowledged punctuallysalutes from rare male walkers, the salute of two small schoolboys at thegarden gate of the house said to have been admired by the late queen whenvisiting the Irish capital with her husband, the prince consort, in and the salute of Almidano Artifonis sturdy trousers swallowed by aclosing door.    * * * * * * *Bronze by gold heard the hoofirons, steelyringing Imperthnthn thnthnthn.Chips, picking chips off rocky thumbnail, chips.Horrid! And gold flushed more.A husky fifenote blew.Blew. Blue bloom is on the.Goldpinnacled hair.A jumping rose on satiny breast of satin, rose of Castile.Trilling, trilling: Idolores.Peep! Whos in the ... peepofgold?Tink cried to bronze in pity.And a call, pure, long and throbbing. Longindying call.Decoy. Soft word. But look: the bright stars fade. Notes chirrupinganswer.O rose! Castile. The morn is breaking.Jingle jingle jaunted jingling.Coin rang. Clock clacked.Avowal. SONNEZ. I could. Rebound of garter. Not leave thee. Smack. LACLOCHE! Thigh smack. Avowal. Warm. Sweetheart, goodbye!Jingle. Bloo.Boomed crashing chords. When love absorbs. War! War! The tympanum.A sail! A veil awave upon the waves.Lost. Throstle fluted. All is lost now.Horn. Hawhorn.When first he saw. Alas!Full tup. Full throb.Warbling. Ah, lure! Alluring.Martha! Come!Clapclap. Clipclap. Clappyclap.Goodgod henev erheard inall.Deaf bald Pat brought pad knife took up.A moonlit nightcall: far, far.I feel so sad. P. S. So lonely blooming.Listen!The spiked and winding cold seahorn. Have you the? Each, and for other,plash and silent roar.Pearls: when she. Liszts rhapsodies. Hissss.You dont?Did not: no, no: believe: Lidlyd. With a cock with a carra.Black. Deepsounding. Do, Ben, do.Wait while you wait. Hee hee. Wait while you hee.But wait!Low in dark middle earth. Embedded ore.Naminedamine. Preacher is he:All gone. All fallen.Tiny, her tremulous fernfoils of maidenhair.Amen! He gnashed in fury.Fro. To, fro. A baton cool protruding.Bronzelydia by Minagold.By bronze, by gold, in oceangreen of shadow. Bloom. Old Bloom.One rapped, one tapped, with a carra, with a cock.Pray for him! Pray, good people!His gouty fingers nakkering.Big Benaben. Big Benben.Last rose Castile of summer left bloom I feel so sad alone.Pwee! Little wind piped wee.True men. Lid Ker Cow De and Doll. Ay, ay. Like you men. Will lift yourtschink with tschunk.Fff! Oo!Where bronze from anear? Where gold from afar? Where hoofs?Rrrpr. Kraa. Kraandl.Then not till then. My eppripfftaph. Be pfrwritt.Done.Begin!Bronze by gold, miss Douces head by miss Kennedys head, over thecrossblind of the Ormond bar heard the viceregal hoofs go by, ringingsteel.--Is that her? asked miss Kennedy.Miss Douce said yes, sitting with his ex, pearl grey and EAU DE NIL.--Exquisite contrast, miss Kennedy said.When all agog miss Douce said eagerly:--Look at the fellow in the tall silk.--Who? Where? gold asked more eagerly.--In the second carriage, miss Douces wet lips said, laughing in the sun.Hes looking. Mind till I see.She darted, bronze, to the backmost corner, flattening her faceagainst the pane in a halo of hurried breath.Her wet lips tittered:--Hes killed looking back.She laughed:--O wept! Arent men frightful idiots?With sadness.Miss Kennedy sauntered sadly from bright light, twining a loose hairbehind an ear. Sauntering sadly, gold no more, she twisted twined a hair.Sadly she twined in sauntering gold hair behind a curving ear.--Its them has the fine times, sadly then she said.A man.Bloowho went by by Moulangs pipes bearing in his breast the sweetsof sin, by Wines antiques, in memory bearing sweet sinful words, byCarrolls dusky battered plate, for Raoul.The boots to them, them in the bar, them barmaids came. For themunheeding him he banged on the counter his tray of chattering china. And--Theres your teas, he said.Miss Kennedy with manners transposed the teatray down to anupturned lithia crate, safe from eyes, low.--What is it? loud boots unmannerly asked.--Find out, miss Douce retorted, leaving her spyingpoint.--Your BEAU, is it?A haughty bronze replied:--Ill complain to Mrs de Massey on you if I hear any more of yourimpertinent insolence.--Imperthnthn thnthnthn, bootssnout sniffed rudely, as he retreated as shethreatened as he had come.Bloom.On her flower frowning miss Douce said:--Most aggravating that young brat is. If he doesnt conduct himself Illwring his ear for him a yard long.Ladylike in exquisite contrast.--Take no notice, miss Kennedy rejoined.She poured in a teacup tea, then back in the teapot tea. They coweredunder their reef of counter, waiting on footstools, crates upturned,waiting for their teas to draw. They pawed their blouses, both of blacksatin, two and nine a yard, waiting for their teas to draw, and two andseven.Yes, bronze from anear, by gold from afar, heard steel from anear,hoofs ring from afar, and heard steelhoofs ringhoof ringsteel.--Am I awfully sunburnt?Miss bronze unbloused her neck.--No, said miss Kennedy. It gets brown after. Did you try the borax withthe cherry laurel water?Miss Douce halfstood to see her skin askance in the barmirrorgildedlettered where hock and claret glasses shimmered and in their midsta shell.--And leave it to my hands, she said.--Try it with the glycerine, miss Kennedy advised.Bidding her neck and hands adieu miss Douce--Those things only bring out a rash, replied, reseated. I asked that oldfogey in Boyds for something for my skin.Miss Kennedy, pouring now a fulldrawn tea, grimaced and prayed:--O, dont remind me of him for mercy sake!--But wait till I tell you, miss Douce entreated.Sweet tea miss Kennedy having poured with milk plugged both twoears with little fingers.--No, dont, she cried.--I wont listen, she cried.But Bloom?Miss Douce grunted in snuffy fogeys tone:--For your what? says he.Miss Kennedy unplugged her ears to hear, to speak: but said, butprayed again:--Dont let me think of him or Ill expire. The hideous old wretch! Thatnight in the Antient Concert Rooms.She sipped distastefully her brew, hot tea, a sip, sipped, sweet tea.--Here he was, miss Douce said, cocking her bronze head three quarters,ruffling her nosewings. Hufa! Hufa!Shrill shriek of laughter sprang from miss Kennedys throat. MissDouce huffed and snorted down her nostrils that quivered imperthnthn likea snout in quest.--O! shrieking, miss Kennedy cried. Will you ever forget his goggle eye?Miss Douce chimed in in deep bronze laughter, shouting:--And your other eye!Bloowhose dark eye read Aaron Figatners name. Why do I alwaysthink Figather? Gathering figs, I think. And Prosper Lores huguenot name.By Bassis blessed virgins Blooms dark eyes went by. Bluerobed, whiteunder, come to me. God they believe she is: or goddess. Those today. Icould not see. That fellow spoke. A student. After with Dedalus son. Hemight be Mulligan. All comely virgins. That brings those rakes of fellowsin: her white.By went his eyes. The sweets of sin. Sweet are the sweets.Of sin.In a giggling peal young goldbronze voices blended, Douce withKennedy your other eye. They threw young heads back, bronze gigglegold,to let freefly their laughter, screaming, your other, signals to eachother,  high piercing notes.Ah, panting, sighing, sighing, ah, fordone, their mirth died down.Miss Kennedy lipped her cup again, raised, drank a sip andgigglegiggled. Miss Douce, bending over the teatray, ruffled again hernose and rolled droll fattened eyes. Again Kennygiggles, stooping, herfair pinnacles of hair, stooping, her tortoise napecomb showed, splutteredout of her mouth her tea, choking in tea and laughter, coughing withchoking, crying:--O greasy eyes! Imagine being married to a man like that! she cried. Withhis bit of beard!Douce gave full vent to a splendid yell, a full yell of full woman,delight, joy, indignation.--Married to the greasy nose! she yelled.Shrill, with deep laughter, after, gold after bronze, they urged eacheach to peal after peal, ringing in changes, bronzegold, goldbronze,shrilldeep, to laughter after laughter. And then laughed more. Greasy Iknows. Exhausted, breathless, their shaken heads they laid, braided andpinnacled by glossycombed, against the counterledge. All flushed (O!),panting, sweating (O!), all breathless.Married to Bloom, to greaseabloom.--O saints above! miss Douce said, sighed above her jumping rose. I wishedI hadnt laughed so much. I feel all wet.--O, miss Douce! miss Kennedy protested. You horrid thing!And flushed yet more (you horrid!), more goldenly.By Cantwells offices roved Greaseabloom, by Ceppis virgins, brightof their oils. Nannettis father hawked those things about, wheedling atdoors as I. Religion pays. Must see him for that par. Eat first. I want.Not yet. At four, she said. Time ever passing. Clockhands turning. On.Where eat? The Clarence, Dolphin. On. For Raoul. Eat. If I net fiveguineas with those ads. The violet silk petticoats. Not yet. The sweetsof sin.Flushed less, still less, goldenly paled.Into their bar strolled Mr Dedalus. Chips, picking chips off one of hisrocky thumbnails. Chips. He strolled.--O, welcome back, miss Douce.He held her hand. Enjoyed her holidays?--Tiptop.He hoped she had nice weather in Rostrevor.--Gorgeous, she said. Look at the holy show I am. Lying out on the strandall day.Bronze whiteness.--That was exceedingly naughty of you, Mr Dedalus told her and pressedher hand indulgently. Tempting poor simple males.Miss Douce of satin douced her arm away.--O go away! she said. Youre very simple, I dont think.He was.--Well now I am, he mused. I looked so simple in the cradle they christenedme simple Simon.--You must have been a doaty, miss Douce made answer. And what did thedoctor order today?--Well now, he mused, whatever you say yourself. I think Ill trouble youfor some fresh water and a half glass of whisky.Jingle.--With the greatest alacrity, miss Douce agreed.With grace of alacrity towards the mirror gilt Cantrell andCochranes she turned herself. With grace she tapped a measure of goldwhisky from her crystal keg. Forth from the skirt of his coat Mr Dedalusbrought pouch and pipe. Alacrity she served. He blew through the flue twohusky fifenotes.--By Jove, he mused, I often wanted to see the Mourne mountains. Must bea great tonic in the air down there. But a long threatening comes at last,they say. Yes. Yes.Yes. He fingered shreds of hair, her maidenhair, her mermaids, intothe bowl. Chips. Shreds. Musing. Mute.None nought said nothing. Yes.Gaily miss Douce polished a tumbler, trilling:--O, IDOLORES, QUEEN OF THE EASTERN SEAS!--Was Mr Lidwell in today?In came Lenehan. Round him peered Lenehan. Mr Bloom reached Essex bridge.Yes, Mr Bloom crossed bridge of Yessex. To Martha I must write. Buy paper.Dalys. Girl there civil. Bloom. Old Bloom. Blue bloom is on the rye.--He was in at lunchtime, miss Douce said.Lenehan came forward.--Was Mr Boylan looking for me?He asked. She answered:--Miss Kennedy, was Mr Boylan in while I was upstairs?She asked. Miss voice of Kennedy answered, a second teacup poised,her gaze upon a page:--No. He was not.Miss gaze of Kennedy, heard, not seen, read on. Lenehan round thesandwichbell wound his round body round.--Peep! Whos in the corner?No glance of Kennedy rewarding him he yet made overtures. To mindher stops. To read only the black ones: round o and crooked ess.Jingle jaunty jingle.Girlgold she read and did not glance. Take no notice. She took nonotice while he read by rote a solfa fable for her, plappering flatly:--Ah fox met ah stork. Said thee fox too thee stork: Will you put yourbill down inn my troath and pull upp ah bone?He droned in vain. Miss Douce turned to her tea aside.He sighed aside:--Ah me! O my!He greeted Mr Dedalus and got a nod.--Greetings from the famous son of a famous father.--Who may he be? Mr Dedalus asked.Lenehan opened most genial arms. Who?--Who may he be? he asked. Can you ask? Stephen, the youthful bard.Dry.Mr Dedalus, famous father, laid by his dry filled pipe.--I see, he said. I didnt recognise him for the moment. I hear he iskeeping very select company. Have you seen him lately?He had.--I quaffed the nectarbowl with him this very day, said Lenehan. InMooneys EN VILLE and in Mooneys SUR MER. He had received the rhino forthe labour of his muse.He smiled at bronzes teabathed lips, at listening lips and eyes:--The ELITE of Erin hung upon his lips. The ponderous pundit, HughMacHugh, Dublins most brilliant scribe and editor and that minstrel boyof the wild wet west who is known by the euphonious appellation of theOMadden Burke.After an interval Mr Dedalus raised his grog and--That must have been highly diverting, said he. I see.He see. He drank. With faraway mourning mountain eye. Set downhis glass.He looked towards the saloon door.--I see you have moved the piano.--The tuner was in today, miss Douce replied, tuning it for the smokingconcert and I never heard such an exquisite player.--Is that a fact?--Didnt he, miss Kennedy? The real classical, you know. And blind too,poor fellow. Not twenty Im sure he was.--Is that a fact? Mr Dedalus said.He drank and strayed away.--So sad to look at his face, miss Douce condoled.Gods curse on bitchs bastard.Tink to her pity cried a diners bell. To the door of the bar anddiningroom came bald Pat, came bothered Pat, came Pat, waiter ofOrmond. Lager for diner. Lager without alacrity she served.With patience Lenehan waited for Boylan with impatience, forjinglejaunty blazes boy.Upholding the lid he (who?) gazed in the coffin (coffin?) at theoblique triple (piano!) wires. He pressed (the same who pressedindulgently her hand), soft pedalling, a triple of keys to see thethicknesses of felt advancing, to hear the muffled hammerfall in action.Two sheets cream vellum paper one reserve two envelopes when I wasin Wisdom Helys wise Bloom in Dalys Henry Flower bought. Are you nothappy in your home? Flower to console me and a pin cuts lo. Meanssomething, language of flow. Was it a daisy? Innocence that is.Respectable girl meet after mass. Thanks awfully muchly. Wise Bloom eyedon the door a poster, a swaying mermaid smoking mid nice waves. Smokemermaids, coolest whiff of all. Hair streaming: lovelorn. For some man.For Raoul. He eyed and saw afar on Essex bridge a gay hat riding on ajaunting car. It is. Again. Third time. Coincidence.Jingling on supple rubbers it jaunted from the bridge to Ormondquay. Follow. Risk it. Go quick. At four. Near now. Out.--Twopence, sir, the shopgirl dared to say.--Aha ... I was forgetting ... Excuse ...--And four.At four she. Winsomely she on Bloohimwhom smiled. Bloo smi quigo. Ternoon. Think youre the only pebble on the beach? Does that to all.For men.In drowsy silence gold bent on her page.From the saloon a call came, long in dying. That was a tuningfork thetuner had that he forgot that he now struck. A call again. That he nowpoised that it now throbbed. You hear? It throbbed, pure, purer, softlyand softlier, its buzzing prongs. Longer in dying call.Pat paid for diners popcorked bottle: and over tumbler, tray andpopcorked bottle ere he went he whispered, bald and bothered, with missDouce.--THE BRIGHT STARS FADE ...A voiceless song sang from within, singing:-- ... THE MORN IS BREAKING.A duodene of birdnotes chirruped bright treble answer under sensitivehands. Brightly the keys, all twinkling, linked, all harpsichording,called to a voice to sing the strain of dewy morn, of youth, of lovesleavetaking, lifes, loves morn.--THE DEWDROPS PEARL ...Lenehans lips over the counter lisped a low whistle of decoy.--But look this way, he said, rose of Castile.Jingle jaunted by the curb and stopped.She rose and closed her reading, rose of Castile: fretted, forlorn,dreamily rose.--Did she fall or was she pushed? he asked her.She answered, slighting:--Ask no questions and youll hear no lies.Like lady, ladylike.Blazes Boylans smart tan shoes creaked on the barfloor where hestrode. Yes, gold from anear by bronze from afar. Lenehan heard and knewand hailed him:--See the conquering hero comes.Between the car and window, warily walking, went Bloom,unconquered hero. See me he might. The seat he sat on: warm. Black waryhecat walked towards Richie Gouldings legal bag, lifted aloft, saluting.--AND I FROM THEE ...--I heard you were round, said Blazes Boylan.He touched to fair miss Kennedy a rim of his slanted straw. Shesmiled on him. But sister bronze outsmiled her, preening for him herricher hair, a bosom and a rose.Smart Boylan bespoke potions.--Whats your cry? Glass of bitter? Glass of bitter, please, and a sloeginfor me. Wire in yet?Not yet. At four she. Who said four?Cowleys red lugs and bulging apple in the door of the sheriffs office.Avoid. Goulding a chance. What is he doing in the Ormond? Car waiting.Wait.Hello. Where off to? Something to eat? I too was just. In here. What,Ormond? Best value in Dublin. Is that so? Diningroom. Sit tight there.See, not be seen. I think Ill join you. Come on. Richie led on. Bloomfollowed bag. Dinner fit for a prince.Miss Douce reached high to take a flagon, stretching her satin arm,her bust, that all but burst, so high.--O! O! jerked Lenehan, gasping at each stretch. O!But easily she seized her prey and led it low in triumph.--Why dont you grow? asked Blazes Boylan.Shebronze, dealing from her oblique jar thick syrupy liquor for hislips, looked as it flowed (flower in his coat: who gave him?), andsyrupped with her voice:--Fine goods in small parcels.That is to say she. Neatly she poured slowsyrupy sloe.--Heres fortune, Blazes said.He pitched a broad coin down. Coin rang.--Hold on, said Lenehan, till I ...--Fortune, he wished, lifting his bubbled ale.--Sceptre will win in a canter, he said.--I plunged a bit, said Boylan winking and drinking. Not on my own, youknow. Fancy of a friend of mine.Lenehan still drank and grinned at his tilted ale and at miss Douceslips that all but hummed, not shut, the oceansong her lips had trilled.Idolores. The eastern seas.Clock whirred. Miss Kennedy passed their way (flower, wonder whogave), bearing away teatray. Clock clacked.Miss Douce took Boylans coin, struck boldly the cashregister. Itclanged. Clock clacked. Fair one of Egypt teased and sorted in the tilland hummed and handed coins in change. Look to the west. A clack. For me.--What time is that? asked Blazes Boylan. Four?Oclock.Lenehan, small eyes ahunger on her humming, bust ahumming,tugged Blazes Boylans elbowsleeve.--Lets hear the time, he said.The bag of Goulding, Collis, Ward led Bloom by ryebloom floweredtables. Aimless he chose with agitated aim, bald Pat attending, a tablenear the door. Be near. At four. Has he forgotten? Perhaps a trick. Notcome: whet appetite. I couldnt do. Wait, wait. Pat, waiter, waited.Sparkling bronze azure eyed Blazures skyblue bow and eyes.--Go on, pressed Lenehan. Theres no-one. He never heard.-- ... TO FLORAS LIPS DID HIE.High, a high note pealed in the treble clear.Bronzedouce communing with her rose that sank and rose soughtBlazes Boylans flower and eyes.--Please, please.He pleaded over returning phrases of avowal.--I COULD NOT LEAVE THEE ...--Afterwits, miss Douce promised coyly.--No, now, urged Lenehan. SONNEZLACLOCHE! O do! Theres no-one.She looked. Quick. Miss Kenn out of earshot. Sudden bent. Twokindling faces watched her bend.Quavering the chords strayed from the air, found it again, lost chord,and lost and found it, faltering.--Go on! Do! SONNEZ!Bending, she nipped a peak of skirt above her knee. Delayed. Tauntedthem still, bending, suspending, with wilful eyes.--SONNEZ!Smack. She set free sudden in rebound her nipped elastic gartersmackwarm against her smackable a womans warmhosed thigh.--LA CLOCHE! cried gleeful Lenehan. Trained by owner. No sawdust there.She smilesmirked supercilious (wept! arent men?), but, lightwardgliding, mild she smiled on Boylan.--Youre the essence of vulgarity, she in gliding said.Boylan, eyed, eyed. Tossed to fat lips his chalice, drank off his chalicetiny, sucking the last fat violet syrupy drops. His spellbound eyes wentafter, after her gliding head as it went down the bar by mirrors, gildedarch for ginger ale, hock and claret glasses shimmering, a spiky shell,where it concerted, mirrored, bronze with sunnier bronze.Yes, bronze from anearby.-- ... SWEETHEART, GOODBYE!--Im off, said Boylan with impatience.He slid his chalice brisk away, grasped his change.--Wait a shake, begged Lenehan, drinking quickly. I wanted to tell you.Tom Rochford ...--Come on to blazes, said Blazes Boylan, going.Lenehan gulped to go.--Got the horn or what? he said. Wait. Im coming.He followed the hasty creaking shoes but stood by nimbly by thethreshold, saluting forms, a bulky with a slender.--How do you do, Mr Dollard?--Eh? How do? How do? Ben Dollards vague bass answered, turning aninstant from Father Cowleys woe. He wont give you any trouble, Bob. AlfBergan will speak to the long fellow. Well put a barleystraw in thatJudas Iscariots ear this time.Sighing Mr Dedalus came through the saloon, a finger soothing aneyelid.--Hoho, we will, Ben Dollard yodled jollily. Come on, Simon. Give us aditty. We heard the piano.Bald Pat, bothered waiter, waited for drink orders. Power for Richie.And Bloom? Let me see. Not make him walk twice. His corns. Four now.How warm this black is. Course nerves a bit. Refracts (is it?) heat. Letme see. Cider. Yes, bottle of cider.--Whats that? Mr Dedalus said. I was only vamping, man.--Come on, come on, Ben Dollard called. Begone dull care. Come, Bob.He ambled Dollard, bulky slops, before them (hold that fellow withthe: hold him now) into the saloon. He plumped him Dollard on the stool.His gouty paws plumped chords. Plumped, stopped abrupt.Bald Pat in the doorway met tealess gold returning. Bothered, hewanted Power and cider. Bronze by the window, watched, bronze fromafar.Jingle a tinkle jaunted.Bloom heard a jing, a little sound. Hes off. Light sob of breath Bloomsighed on the silent bluehued flowers. Jingling. Hes gone. Jingle. Hear.--Love and War, Ben, Mr Dedalus said. God be with old times.Miss Douces brave eyes, unregarded, turned from the crossblind,smitten by sunlight. Gone. Pensive (who knows?), smitten (the smitinglight), she lowered the dropblind with a sliding cord. She drew downpensive (why did he go so quick when I?) about her bronze, over the barwhere bald stood by sister gold, inexquisite contrast, contrastinexquisite nonexquisite, slow cool dim seagreen sliding depth of shadow,EAU DE NIL.--Poor old Goodwin was the pianist that night, Father Cowley remindedthem. There was a slight difference of opinion between himself and theCollard grand.There was.--A symposium all his own, Mr Dedalus said. The devil wouldnt stop him.He was a crotchety old fellow in the primary stage of drink.--God, do you remember? Ben bulky Dollard said, turning from thepunished keyboard. And by Japers I had no wedding garment.They laughed all three. He had no wed. All trio laughed. No weddinggarment.--Our friend Bloom turned in handy that night, Mr Dedalus said. Wheresmy pipe, by the way?He wandered back to the bar to the lost chord pipe. Bald Pat carriedtwo diners drinks, Richie and Poldy. And Father Cowley laughed again.--I saved the situation, Ben, I think.--You did, averred Ben Dollard. I remember those tight trousers too. Thatwas a brilliant idea, Bob.Father Cowley blushed to his brilliant purply lobes. He saved thesitua. Tight trou. Brilliant ide.--I knew he was on the rocks, he said. The wife was playing the piano inthe coffee palace on Saturdays for a very trifling consideration and whowas it gave me the wheeze she was doing the other business? Do youremember? We had to search all Holles street to find them till the chap inKeoghs gave us the number. Remember? Ben remembered, his broad visagewondering.--By God, she had some luxurious operacloaks and things there.Mr Dedalus wandered back, pipe in hand.--Merrion square style. Balldresses, by God, and court dresses. Hewouldnt take any money either. What? Any Gods quantity of cocked hatsand boleros and trunkhose. What?--Ay, ay, Mr Dedalus nodded. Mrs Marion Bloom has left off clothes of alldescriptions.Jingle jaunted down the quays. Blazes sprawled on bounding tyres.Liver and bacon. Steak and kidney pie. Right, sir. Right, Pat.Mrs Marion. Met him pike hoses. Smell of burn. Of Paul de Kock. Nicename he.--Whats this her name was? A buxom lassy. Marion ...--Tweedy.--Yes. Is she alive?--And kicking.--She was a daughter of ...--Daughter of the regiment.--Yes, begad. I remember the old drummajor.Mr Dedalus struck, whizzed, lit, puffed savoury puff after--Irish? I dont know, faith. Is she, Simon?Puff after stiff, a puff, strong, savoury, crackling.--Buccinator muscle is ... What? ... Bit rusty ... O, she is ... MyIrish Molly, O.He puffed a pungent plumy blast.--From the rock of Gibraltar... all the way.They pined in depth of ocean shadow, gold by the beerpull, bronze bymaraschino, thoughtful all two. Mina Kennedy,  Lismore terrace,Drumcondra with Idolores, a queen, Dolores, silent.Pat served, uncovered dishes. Leopold cut liverslices. As said before heate with relish the inner organs, nutty gizzards, fried cods roes whileRichie Goulding, Collis, Ward ate steak and kidney, steak then kidney,bite by bite of pie he ate Bloom ate they ate.Bloom with Goulding, married in silence, ate. Dinners fit for princes.By Bachelors walk jogjaunty jingled Blazes Boylan, bachelor, in sunin heat, mares glossy rump atrot, with flick of whip, on bounding tyres:sprawled, warmseated, Boylan impatience, ardentbold. Horn. Have youthe? Horn. Have you the? Haw haw horn.Over their voices Dollard bassooned attack, booming over bombardingchords:--WHEN LOVE ABSORBS MY ARDENT SOUL ...Roll of Bensoulbenjamin rolled to the quivery loveshivery roofpanes.--War! War! cried Father Cowley. Youre the warrior.--So I am, Ben Warrior laughed. I was thinking of your landlord. Love ormoney.He stopped. He wagged huge beard, huge face over his blunder huge.--Sure, youd burst the tympanum of her ear, man, Mr Dedalus saidthrough smoke aroma, with an organ like yours.In bearded abundant laughter Dollard shook upon the keyboard. Hewould.--Not to mention another membrane, Father Cowley added. Half time,Ben. AMOROSO MA NON TROPPO. Let me there.Miss Kennedy served two gentlemen with tankards of cool stout. Shepassed a remark. It was indeed, first gentleman said, beautiful weather.They drank cool stout. Did she know where the lord lieutenant was going?And heard steelhoofs ringhoof ring. No, she couldnt say. But it would bein the paper. O, she need not trouble. No trouble. She waved about heroutspread INDEPENDENT, searching, the lord lieutenant, her pinnacles ofhair slowmoving, lord lieuten. Too much trouble, first gentleman said. O,not in the least. Way he looked that. Lord lieutenant. Gold by bronzeheard iron steel.-- ............ MY ARDENT SOUL    I CARE NOT FOROR THE MORROW.In liver gravy Bloom mashed mashed potatoes. Love and Warsomeone is. Ben Dollards famous. Night he ran round to us to borrow adress suit for that concert. Trousers tight as a drum on him. Musicalporkers. Molly did laugh when he went out. Threw herself back across thebed, screaming, kicking. With all his belongings on show. O saints above,Im drenched! O, the women in the front row! O, I never laughed so many!Well, of course thats what gives him the base barreltone. For instanceeunuchs. Wonder whos playing. Nice touch. Must be Cowley. Musical.Knows whatever note you play. Bad breath he has, poor chap. Stopped.Miss Douce, engaging, Lydia Douce, bowed to suave solicitor, GeorgeLidwell, gentleman, entering. Good afternoon. She gave her moist(a ladys) hand to his firm clasp. Afternoon. Yes, she was back. To theold dingdong again.--Your friends are inside, Mr Lidwell.George Lidwell, suave, solicited, held a lydiahand.Bloom ate liv as said before. Clean here at least. That chap in theBurton, gummy with gristle. No-one here: Goulding and I. Clean tables,flowers, mitres of napkins. Pat to and fro. Bald Pat. Nothing to do. Bestvalue in Dub.Piano again. Cowley it is. Way he sits in to it, like one together,mutual understanding. Tiresome shapers scraping fiddles, eye on thebowend, sawing the cello, remind you of toothache. Her high long snore.Night we were in the box. Trombone under blowing like a grampus,between the acts, other brass chap unscrewing, emptying spittle.Conductors legs too, bagstrousers, jiggedy jiggedy. Do right to hidethem.Jiggedy jingle jaunty jaunty.Only the harp. Lovely. Gold glowering light. Girl touched it. Poop ofa lovely. Gravys rather good fit for a. Golden ship. Erin. The harp thatonce or twice. Cool hands. Ben Howth, the rhododendrons. We are theirharps. I. He. Old. Young.--Ah, I couldnt, man, Mr Dedalus said, shy, listless.Strongly.--Go on, blast you! Ben Dollard growled. Get it out in bits.--MAPPARI, Simon, Father Cowley said.Down stage he strode some paces, grave, tall in affliction, his longarms outheld. Hoarsely the apple of his throat hoarsed softly. Softly hesang to a dusty seascape there: A LAST FAREWELL. A headland, a ship, asail upon the billows. Farewell. A lovely girl, her veil awave upon thewind upon the headland, wind around her.Cowley sang:--MAPPARI TUTTAMOR:IL MIO SGUARDO LINCONTR ...She waved, unhearing Cowley, her veil, to one departing, dear one, towind, love, speeding sail, return.--Go on, Simon.--Ah, sure, my dancing days are done, Ben ... Well ...Mr Dedalus laid his pipe to rest beside the tuningfork and, sitting,touched the obedient keys.--No, Simon, Father Cowley turned. Play it in the original. One flat.The keys, obedient, rose higher, told, faltered, confessed, confused.Up stage strode Father Cowley.--Here, Simon, Ill accompany you, he said. Get up.By Graham Lemons pineapple rock, by Elverys elephant jinglyjogged. Steak, kidney, liver, mashed, at meat fit for princes sat princesBloom and Goulding. Princes at meat they raised and drank, Power andcider.Most beautiful tenor air ever written, Richie said: SONNAMBULA. Heheard Joe Maas sing that one night. Ah, what MGuckin! Yes. In his way.Choirboy style. Maas was the boy. Massboy. A lyrical tenor if you like.Never forget it. Never.Tenderly Bloom over liverless bacon saw the tightened features strain.Backache he. Brights bright eye. Next item on the programme. Paying thepiper. Pills, pounded bread, worth a guinea a box. Stave it off awhile.Sings too: DOWN AMONG THE DEAD MEN. Appropriate. Kidney pie. Sweets tothe. Not making much hand of it. Best value in. Characteristic of him.Power. Particular about his drink. Flaw in the glass, fresh Vartry water.Fecking matches from counters to save. Then squander a sovereign in dribsand drabs. And when hes wanted not a farthing. Screwed refusing to payhis fare. Curious types.Never would Richie forget that night. As long as he lived: never. Inthe gods of the old Royal with little Peake. And when the first note.Speech paused on Richies lips.Coming out with a whopper now. Rhapsodies about damn all.Believes his own lies. Does really. Wonderful liar. But want a goodmemory.--Which air is that? asked Leopold Bloom.--ALL IS LOST NOW.Richie cocked his lips apout. A low incipient note sweet banshee murmured:all. A thrush. A throstle. His breath, birdsweet, good teeth hesproud of, fluted with plaintive woe. Is lost. Rich sound. Two notes in onethere. Blackbird I heard in the hawthorn valley. Taking my motives hetwined and turned them. All most too new call is lost in all. Echo. Howsweet the answer. How is that done? All lost now. Mournful he whistled.Fall, surrender, lost.Bloom bent leopold ear, turning a fringe of doyley down under thevase. Order. Yes, I remember. Lovely air. In sleep she went to him.Innocence in the moon. Brave. Dont know their danger. Still hold herback. Call name. Touch water. Jingle jaunty. Too late. She longed to go.Thats why. Woman. As easy stop the sea. Yes: all is lost.--A beautiful air, said Bloom lost Leopold. I know it well.Never in all his life had Richie Goulding.He knows it well too. Or he feels. Still harping on his daughter. Wisechild that knows her father, Dedalus said. Me?Bloom askance over liverless saw. Face of the all is lost. RollickingRichie once. Jokes old stale now. Wagging his ear. Napkinring in his eye.Now begging letters he sends his son with. Crosseyed Walter sir I did sir.Wouldnt trouble only I was expecting some money. Apologise.Piano again. Sounds better than last time I heard. Tuned probably.Stopped again.Dollard and Cowley still urged the lingering singer out with it.--With it, Simon.--It, Simon.--Ladies and gentlemen, I am most deeply obliged by your kindsolicitations.--It, Simon.--I have no money but if you will lend me your attention I shall endeavourto sing to you of a heart bowed down.By the sandwichbell in screening shadow Lydia, her bronze and rose,a ladys grace, gave and withheld: as in cool glaucous EAU DE NIL Minato tankards two her pinnacles of gold.The harping chords of prelude closed. A chord, longdrawn, expectant,drew a voice away.--WHEN FIRST I SAW THAT FORM ENDEARING ...Richie turned.--Si Dedalus voice, he said.Braintipped, cheek touched with flame, they listened feeling that flowendearing flow over skin limbs human heart soul spine. Bloom signed toPat, bald Pat is a waiter hard of hearing, to set ajar the door of thebar. The door of the bar. So. That will do. Pat, waiter, waited, waitingto hear, for he was hard of hear by the door.--SORROW FROM ME SEEMED TO DEPART.Through the hush of air a voice sang to them, low, not rain, not leavesin murmur, like no voice of strings or reeds or whatdoyoucallthemdulcimers touching their still ears with words, still hearts of their eachhis remembered lives. Good, good to hear: sorrow from them each seemed tofrom both depart when first they heard. When first they saw, lost RichiePoldy, mercy of beauty, heard from a person wouldnt expect it in theleast, her first merciful lovesoft oftloved word.Love that is singing: loves old sweet song. Bloom unwound slowlythe elastic band of his packet. Loves old sweet SONNEZ LA gold. Bloomwound a skein round four forkfingers, stretched it, relaxed, and wound itround his troubled double, fourfold, in octave, gyved them fast.--FULL OF HOPE AND ALL DELIGHTED ...Tenors get women by the score. Increase their flow. Throw flower athis feet. When will we meet? My head it simply. Jingle all delighted. Hecant sing for tall hats. Your head it simply swurls. Perfumed for him.What perfume does your wife? I want to know. Jing. Stop. Knock. Last lookat mirror always before she answers the door. The hall. There? How do you?I do well. There? What? Or? Phial of cachous, kissing comfits, in hersatchel. Yes? Hands felt for the opulent.Alas the voice rose, sighing, changed: loud, full, shining, proud.--BUT ALAS, TWAS IDLE DREAMING ...Glorious tone he has still. Cork air softer also their brogue. Silly man!Could have made oceans of money. Singing wrong words. Wore out hiswife: now sings. But hard to tell. Only the two themselves. If he doesntbreak down. Keep a trot for the avenue. His hands and feet sing too.Drink. Nerves overstrung. Must be abstemious to sing. Jenny Lind soup:stock, sage, raw eggs, half pint of cream. For creamy dreamy.Tenderness it welled: slow, swelling, full it throbbed. Thats the chat.Ha, give! Take! Throb, a throb, a pulsing proud erect.Words? Music? No: its whats behind.Bloom looped, unlooped, noded, disnoded.Bloom. Flood of warm jamjam lickitup secretness flowed to flow inmusic out, in desire, dark to lick flow invading. Tipping her tepping hertapping her topping her. Tup. Pores to dilate dilating. Tup. The joy thefeel the warm the. Tup. To pour oer sluices pouring gushes. Flood, gush,flow, joygush, tupthrob. Now! Language of love.-- ... RAY OF HOPE IS ...Beaming. Lydia for Lidwell squeak scarcely hear so ladylike the museunsqueaked a ray of hopk.MARTHA it is. Coincidence. Just going to write. Lionels song. Lovelyname you have. Cant write. Accept my little pres. Play on herheartstrings pursestrings too. Shes a. I called you naughty boy. Stillthe name: Martha. How strange! Today.The voice of Lionel returned, weaker but unwearied. It sang again toRichie Poldy Lydia Lidwell also sang to Pat open mouth ear waiting towait. How first he saw that form endearing, how sorrow seemed to part,how look, form, word charmed him Gould Lidwell, won Pat Blooms heart.Wish I could see his face, though. Explain better. Why the barber inDragos always looked my face when I spoke his face in the glass. Stillhear it better here than in the bar though farther.--EACH GRACEFUL LOOK ...First night when first I saw her at Mat Dillons in Terenure. Yellow,black lace she wore. Musical chairs. We two the last. Fate. After her.Fate.Round and round slow. Quick round. We two. All looked. Halt. Down shesat. All ousted looked. Lips laughing. Yellow knees.--CHARMED MY EYE ...Singing. WAITING she sang. I turned her music. Full voice of perfumeof what perfume does your lilactrees. Bosom I saw, both full, throatwarbling. First I saw. She thanked me. Why did she me? Fate. Spanishyeyes. Under a peartree alone patio this hour in old Madrid one side inshadow Dolores shedolores. At me. Luring. Ah, alluring.--MARTHA! AH, MARTHA!Quitting all languor Lionel cried in grief, in cry of passion dominantto love to return with deepening yet with rising chords of harmony. In cryof lionel loneliness that she should know, must martha feel. For only herhe waited. Where? Here there try there here all try where. Somewhere.--CO-OME, THOU LOST ONE!  CO-OME, THOU DEAR ONE!Alone. One love. One hope. One comfort me. Martha, chestnote, return!--COME!It soared, a bird, it held its flight, a swift pure cry, soar silver orbit leaped serene, speeding, sustained, to come, dont spin it out too longlong breath he breath long life, soaring high, high resplendent, aflame,crowned, high in the effulgence symbolistic, high, of the etherial bosom,high, of the high vast irradiation everywhere all soaring all around aboutthe all, the endlessnessnessness ...--TO ME!Siopold!Consumed.Come. Well sung. All clapped. She ought to. Come. To me, to him, toher, you too, me, us.--Bravo! Clapclap. Good man, Simon. Clappyclapclap. Encore!Clapclipclap clap. Sound as a bell. Bravo, Simon! Clapclopclap. Encore,enclap, said, cried, clapped all, Ben Dollard, Lydia Douce, GeorgeLidwell, Pat, Mina Kennedy, two gentlemen with two tankards, Cowley,first gent with tank and bronze miss Douce and gold MJiss Mina.Blazes Boylans smart tan shoes creaked on the barfloor, said before.Jingle by monuments of sir John Gray, Horatio onehandled Nelson,reverend father Theobald Mathew, jaunted, as said before just now. Atrot,in heat, heatseated. CLOCHE. SONNEZ LA. CLOCHE. SONNEZ LA. Slower the marewent up the hill by the Rotunda, Rutland square. Too slow for Boylan,blazes Boylan, impatience Boylan, joggled the mare.An afterclang of Cowleys chords closed, died on the air made richer.And Richie Goulding drank his Power and Leopold Bloom his ciderdrank, Lidwell his Guinness, second gentleman said they would partake oftwo more tankards if she did not mind. Miss Kennedy smirked, disserving,coral lips, at first, at second. She did not mind.--Seven days in jail, Ben Dollard said, on bread and water. Then youdsing, Simon, like a garden thrush.Lionel Simon, singer, laughed. Father Bob Cowley played. MinaKennedy served. Second gentleman paid. Tom Kernan strutted in. Lydia,admired, admired. But Bloom sang dumb.Admiring.Richie, admiring, descanted on that mans glorious voice. Heremembered one night long ago. Never forget that night. Si sang TWASRANK AND FAME: in Ned Lamberts twas. Good God he never heard in all hislife a note like that he never did THEN FALSE ONE WE HAD BETTER PART soclear so God he never heard SINCE LOVE LIVES NOT a clinking voice livesnot ask Lambert he can tell you too.Goulding, a flush struggling in his pale, told Mr Bloom, face of thenight, Si in Ned Lamberts, Dedalus house, sang TWAS RANK AND FAME.He, Mr Bloom, listened while he, Richie Goulding, told him, MrBloom, of the night he, Richie, heard him, Si Dedalus, sing TWAS RANK ANDFAME in his, Ned Lamberts, house.Brothers-in-law: relations. We never speak as we pass by. Rift in thelute I think. Treats him with scorn. See. He admires him all the more. Thenight Si sang. The human voice, two tiny silky chords, wonderful, morethan all others.That voice was a lamentation. Calmer now. Its in the silence afteryou feel you hear. Vibrations. Now silent air.Bloom ungyved his crisscrossed hands and with slack fingers pluckedthe slender catgut thong. He drew and plucked. It buzz, it twanged. WhileGoulding talked of Barracloughs voice production, while Tom Kernan,harking back in a retrospective sort of arrangement talked to listeningFather Cowley, who played a voluntary, who nodded as he played. Whilebig Ben Dollard talked with Simon Dedalus, lighting, who nodded as hesmoked, who smoked.Thou lost one. All songs on that theme. Yet more Bloom stretched hisstring. Cruel it seems. Let people get fond of each other: lure them on.Then tear asunder. Death. Explos. Knock on the head. Outtohelloutofthat.Human life. Dignam. Ugh, that rats tail wriggling! Five bob I gave.CORPUS PARADISUM. Corncrake croaker: belly like a poisoned pup. Gone.They sing. Forgotten. I too; And one day she with. Leave her: get tired.Suffer then. Snivel. Big spanishy eyes goggling at nothing. Herwavyavyeavyheavyeavyevyevyhair un comb:d.Yet too much happy bores. He stretched more, more. Are you nothappy in your? Twang. It snapped.Jingle into Dorset street.Miss Douce withdrew her satiny arm, reproachful, pleased.--Dont make half so free, said she, till we are better acquainted.George Lidwell told her really and truly: but she did not believe.First gentleman told Mina that was so. She asked him was that so.And second tankard told her so. That that was so.Miss Douce, miss Lydia, did not believe: miss Kennedy, Mina, did notbelieve: George Lidwell, no: miss Dou did not: the first, the first: gentwith the tank: believe, no, no: did not, miss Kenn: Lidlydiawell: thetank.Better write it here. Quills in the postoffice chewed and twisted.Bald Pat at a sign drew nigh. A pen and ink. He went. A pad. Hewent. A pad to blot. He heard, deaf Pat.--Yes, Mr Bloom said, teasing the curling catgut line. It certainly is.Few lines will do. My present. All that Italian florid music is. Who isthis wrote? Know the name you know better. Take out sheet notepaper,envelope: unconcerned. Its so characteristic.--Grandest number in the whole opera, Goulding said.--It is, Bloom said.Numbers it is. All music when you come to think. Two multiplied by twodivided by half is twice one. Vibrations: chords those are. One plus twoplus six is seven. Do anything you like with figures juggling. Always findout this equal to that. Symmetry under a cemetery wall. He doesnt see mymourning. Callous: all for his own gut. Musemathematics. And you thinkyoure listening to the etherial. But suppose you said it like: Martha,seven times nine minus x is thirtyfive thousand. Fall quite flat. Its onaccount of the sounds it is.Instance hes playing now. Improvising. Might be what you like, tillyou hear the words. Want to listen sharp. Hard. Begin all right: then hearchords a bit off: feel lost a bit. In and out of sacks, over barrels,through wirefences, obstacle race. Time makes the tune. Question of moodyoure in. Still always nice to hear. Except scales up and down, girlslearning. Two together nextdoor neighbours. Ought to invent dummy pianosfor that. BLUMENLIED I bought for her. The name. Playing it slow, a girl,night I came home, the girl. Door of the stables near Cecilia street.Milly no taste. Queer because we both, I mean.Bald deaf Pat brought quite flat pad ink. Pat set with ink pen quiteflat pad. Pat took plate dish knife fork. Pat went.It was the only language Mr Dedalus said to Ben. He heard them as aboy in Ringabella, Crosshaven, Ringabella, singing their barcaroles.Queenstown harbour full of Italian ships. Walking, you know, Ben, in themoonlight with those earthquake hats. Blending their voices. God, suchmusic, Ben. Heard as a boy. Cross Ringabella haven mooncarole.Sour pipe removed he held a shield of hand beside his lips that cooeda moonlight nightcall, clear from anear, a call from afar, replying.Down the edge of his FREEMAN baton ranged Blooms, your other eye,scanning for where did I see that. Callan, Coleman, Dignam Patrick.Heigho! Heigho! Fawcett. Aha! Just I was looking ...Hope hes not looking, cute as a rat. He held unfurled his FREEMAN.Cant see now. Remember write Greek ees. Bloom dipped, Bloo mur: dearsir. Dear Henry wrote: dear Mady. Got your lett and flow. Hell did I put?Some pock or oth. It is utterl imposs. Underline IMPOSS. To write today.Bore this. Bored Bloom tambourined gently with I am just reflectingfingers on flat pad Pat brought.On. Know what I mean. No, change that ee. Accep my poor litt presenclos. Ask her no answ. Hold on. Five Dig. Two about here. Penny thegulls. Elijah is com. Seven Davy Byrnes. Is eight about. Say half acrown. My poor little pres: p. o. two and six. Write me a long. Do youdespise? Jingle, have you the? So excited. Why do you call me naught?You naughty too? O, Mairy lost the string of her. Bye for today. Yes, yes,will tell you. Want to. To keep it up. Call me that other. Other world shewrote. My patience are exhaust. To keep it up. You must believe. Believe.The tank. It. Is. True.Folly am I writing? Husbands dont. Thats marriage does, theirwives. Because Im away from. Suppose. But how? She must. Keep young.If she found out. Card in my high grade ha. No, not tell all. Uselesspain. If they dont see. Woman. Sauce for the gander.A hackney car, number three hundred and twentyfour, driver Barton James ofnumber one Harmony avenue, Donnybrook, on which sat a fare, a younggentleman, stylishly dressed in an indigoblue serge suit made byGeorge Robert Mesias, tailor and cutter, of number five Eden quay, andwearing a straw hat very dressy, bought of John Plasto of number oneGreat Brunswick street, hatter. Eh? This is the jingle that joggled andjingled. By Dlugacz porkshop bright tubes of Agendath trotted agallantbuttocked mare.--Answering an ad? keen Richies eyes asked Bloom.--Yes, Mr Bloom said. Town traveller. Nothing doing, I expect.Bloom mur: best references. But Henry wrote: it will excite me. Youknow how. In haste. Henry. Greek ee. Better add postscript. What is heplaying now? Improvising. Intermezzo. P. S. The rum tum tum. How willyou pun? You punish me? Crooked skirt swinging, whack by. Tell me I wantto. Know. O. Course if I didnt I wouldnt ask. La la la ree. Trails offthere sad in minor. Why minor sad? Sign H. They like sad tail at end.P. P. S. La la la ree. I feel so sad today. La ree. So lonely. Dee.He blotted quick on pad of Pat. Envel. Address. Just copy out ofpaper. Murmured: Messrs Callan, Coleman and Co, limited. Henry wrote:        Miss Martha Clifford            c/o P. O.        Dolphins Barn Lane                DublinBlot over the other so he cant read. There. Right. Idea prize titbit.Something detective read off blottingpad. Payment at the rate of guineaper col. Matcham often thinks the laughing witch. Poor Mrs Purefoy. U. P:up.Too poetical that about the sad. Music did that. Music hath charms.Shakespeare said. Quotations every day in the year. To be or not to be.Wisdom while you wait.In Gerards rosery of Fetter lane he walks, greyedauburn. One life isall. One body. Do. But do.Done anyhow. Postal order, stamp. Postoffice lower down. Walknow. Enough. Barney Kiernans I promised to meet them. Dislike that job.House of mourning. Walk. Pat! Doesnt hear. Deaf beetle he is.Car near there now. Talk. Talk. Pat! Doesnt. Settling those napkins.Lot of ground he must cover in the day. Paint face behind on him then hedbe two. Wish theyd sing more. Keep my mind off.Bald Pat who is bothered mitred the napkins. Pat is a waiter hard ofhis hearing. Pat is a waiter who waits while you wait. Hee hee hee hee. Hewaits while you wait. Hee hee. A waiter is he. Hee hee hee hee. He waitswhile you wait. While you wait if you wait he will wait while you wait.Hee hee hee hee. Hoh. Wait while you wait.Douce now. Douce Lydia. Bronze and rose.She had a gorgeous, simply gorgeous, time. And look at the lovelyshell she brought.To the end of the bar to him she bore lightly the spiked and windingseahorn that he, George Lidwell, solicitor, might hear.--Listen! she bade him.Under Tom Kernans ginhot words the accompanist wove music slow.Authentic fact. How Walter Bapty lost his voice. Well, sir, the husbandtook him by the throat. SCOUNDREL, said he, YOULL SING NO MORE LOVESONGS.He did, faith, sir Tom. Bob Cowley wove. Tenors get wom. Cowley lay back.Ah, now he heard, she holding it to his ear. Hear! He heard.Wonderful. She held it to her own. And through the sifted light pale goldin contrast glided. To hear.Tap.Bloom through the bardoor saw a shell held at their ears. He heardmore faintly that that they heard, each for herself alone, then each forother, hearing the plash of waves, loudly, a silent roar.Bronze by a weary gold, anear, afar, they listened.Her ear too is a shell, the peeping lobe there. Been to the seaside.Lovely seaside girls. Skin tanned raw. Should have put on coldcream firstmake it brown. Buttered toast. O and that lotion mustnt forget. Fevernear her mouth. Your head it simply. Hair braided over: shell withseaweed. Why do they hide their ears with seaweed hair? And Turks themouth, why? Her eyes over the sheet. Yashmak. Find the way in. A cave. Noadmittance except on business.The sea they think they hear. Singing. A roar. The blood it is. Sousein the ear sometimes. Well, its a sea. Corpuscle islands.Wonderful really. So distinct. Again. George Lidwell held its murmur,hearing: then laid it by, gently.--What are the wild waves saying? he asked her, smiled.Charming, seasmiling and unanswering Lydia on Lidwell smiled.Tap.By Larry ORourkes, by Larry, bold Larry O, Boylan swayed andBoylan turned.From the forsaken shell miss Mina glided to her tankards waiting.No, she was not so lonely archly miss Douces head let Mr Lidwell know.Walks in the moonlight by the sea. No, not alone. With whom? She noblyanswered: with a gentleman friend.Bob Cowleys twinkling fingers in the treble played again. Thelandlord has the prior. A little time. Long John. Big Ben. Lightly heplayed a light bright tinkling measure for tripping ladies, arch andsmiling, and for their gallants, gentlemen friends. One: one, one, one,one, one: two, one, three, four.Sea, wind, leaves, thunder, waters, cows lowing, the cattlemarket,cocks, hens dont crow, snakes hissss. Theres music everywhere.Ruttledges door: ee creaking. No, thats noise. Minuet of DON GIOVANNIhes playing now. Court dresses of all descriptions in castle chambersdancing. Misery. Peasants outside. Green starving faces eatingdockleaves. Nice that is. Look: look, look, look, look, look: youlook at us.Thats joyful I can feel. Never have written it. Why? My joy is otherjoy. But both are joys. Yes, joy it must be. Mere fact of music shows youare. Often thought she was in the dumps till she began to lilt. Thenknow.MCoy valise. My wife and your wife. Squealing cat. Like tearing silk.Tongue when she talks like the clapper of a bellows. They cant managemens intervals. Gap in their voices too. Fill me. Im warm, dark, open.Molly IN QUIS EST HOMO: Mercadante. My ear against the wall to hear. Wanta woman who can deliver the goods.Jog jig jogged stopped. Dandy tan shoe of dandy Boylan socksskyblue clocks came light to earth.O, look we are so! Chamber music. Could make a kind of pun onthat. It is a kind of music I often thought when she. Acoustics that is.Tinkling. Empty vessels make most noise. Because the acoustics, theresonance changes according as the weight of the water is equal to the lawof falling water. Like those rhapsodies of Liszts, Hungarian, gipsyeyed.Pearls. Drops. Rain. Diddleiddle addleaddle ooddleooddle. Hissss. Now.Maybe now. Before.One rapped on a door, one tapped with a knock, did he knock Paulde Kock with a loud proud knocker with a cock carracarracarra cock.Cockcock.Tap.--QUI SDEGNO, Ben, said Father Cowley.--No, Ben, Tom Kernan interfered. The Croppy Boy. Our native Doric.--Ay do, Ben, Mr Dedalus said. Good men and true.--Do, do, they begged in one.Ill go. Here, Pat, return. Come. He came, he came, he did not stay.To me. How much?--What key? Six sharps?--F sharp major, Ben Dollard said.Bob Cowleys outstretched talons griped the black deepsounding chords.Must go prince Bloom told Richie prince. No, Richie said. Yes, must.Got money somewhere. Hes on for a razzle backache spree. Much? Heseehears lipspeech. One and nine. Penny for yourself. Here. Give himtwopence tip. Deaf, bothered. But perhaps he has wife and family waiting,waiting Patty come home. Hee hee hee hee. Deaf wait while they wait.But wait. But hear. Chords dark. Lugugugubrious. Low. In a cave ofthe dark middle earth. Embedded ore. Lumpmusic.The voice of dark age, of unlove, earths fatigue made grave approachand painful, come from afar, from hoary mountains, called on good menand true. The priest he sought. With him would he speak a word.Tap.Ben Dollards voice. Base barreltone. Doing his level best to say it.Croak of vast manless moonless womoonless marsh. Other comedown. Bigships chandlers business he did once. Remember: rosiny ropes, shipslanterns. Failed to the tune of ten thousand pounds. Now in the Iveaghhome. Cubicle number so and so. Number one Bass did that for him.The priests at home. A false priests servant bade him welcome. Stepin. The holy father. With bows a traitor servant. Curlycues of chords.Ruin them. Wreck their lives. Then build them cubicles to end theirdays in. Hushaby. Lullaby. Die, dog. Little dog, die.The voice of warning, solemn warning, told them the youth hadentered a lonely hall, told them how solemn fell his footsteps there, toldthem the gloomy chamber, the vested priest sitting to shrive.Decent soul. Bit addled now. Thinks hell win in ANSWERS, poetspicture puzzle. We hand you crisp five pound note. Bird sitting hatchingin a nest. Lay of the last minstrel he thought it was. See blank tee whatdomestic animal? Tee dash ar most courageous mariner. Good voice he hasstill. No eunuch yet with all his belongings.Listen. Bloom listened. Richie Goulding listened. And by the doordeaf Pat, bald Pat, tipped Pat, listened. The chords harped slower.The voice of penance and of grief came slow, embellished, tremulous.Bens contrite beard confessed. IN NOMINE DOMINI, in Gods name he knelt.He beat his hand upon his breast, confessing: MEA CULPA.Latin again. That holds them like birdlime. Priest with thecommunion corpus for those women. Chap in the mortuary, coffin orcoffey, CORPUSNOMINE. Wonder where that rat is by now. Scrape.Tap.They listened. Tankards and miss Kennedy. George Lidwell, eyelidwell expressive, fullbusted satin. Kernan. Si.The sighing voice of sorrow sang. His sins. Since Easter he hadcursed three times. You bitchs bast. And once at masstime he had gone toplay. Once by the churchyard he had passed and for his mothers rest hehad not prayed. A boy. A croppy boy.Bronze, listening, by the beerpull gazed far away. Soulfully. Doesnthalf know Im. Molly great dab at seeing anyone looking.Bronze gazed far sideways. Mirror there. Is that best side of her face?They always know. Knock at the door. Last tip to titivate.Cockcarracarra.What do they think when they hear music? Way to catch rattlesnakes.Night Michael Gunn gave us the box. Tuning up. Shah of Persia liked thatbest. Remind him of home sweet home. Wiped his nose in curtain too.Custom his country perhaps. Thats music too. Not as bad as it sounds.Tootling. Brasses braying asses through uptrunks. Doublebasses helpless,gashes in their sides. Woodwinds mooing cows. Semigrand open crocodilemusic hath jaws. Woodwind like Goodwins name.She looked fine. Her crocus dress she wore lowcut, belongings onshow. Clove her breath was always in theatre when she bent to ask aquestion. Told her what Spinoza says in that book of poor papas.Hypnotised, listening. Eyes like that. She bent. Chap in dresscirclestaring down into her with his operaglass for all he was worth. Beautyof music you must hear twice. Nature woman half a look. God made thecountry man the tune. Met him pike hoses. Philosophy. O rocks!All gone. All fallen. At the siege of Ross his father, at Gorey all hisbrothers fell. To Wexford, we are the boys of Wexford, he would. Last ofhis name and race.I too. Last of my race. Milly young student. Well, my fault perhaps.No son. Rudy. Too late now. Or if not? If not? If still?He bore no hate.Hate. Love. Those are names. Rudy. Soon I am old. Big Ben his voiceunfolded. Great voice Richie Goulding said, a flush struggling in hispale, to Bloom soon old. But when was young?Ireland comes now. My country above the king. She listens. Whofears to speak of nineteen four? Time to be shoving. Looked enough.--BLESS ME, FATHER, Dollard the croppy cried. BLESS ME AND LET ME GO.Tap.Bloom looked, unblessed to go. Got up to kill: on eighteen bob aweek. Fellows shell out the dibs. Want to keep your weathereye open. Thosegirls, those lovely. By the sad sea waves. Chorusgirls romance. Lettersread out for breach of promise. From Chickabiddys owny Mumpsypum.Laughter in court. Henry. I never signed it. The lovely name you.Low sank the music, air and words. Then hastened. The false priestrustling soldier from his cassock. A yeoman captain. They know it all byheart. The thrill they itch for. Yeoman cap.Tap. Tap.Thrilled she listened, bending in sympathy to hear.Blank face. Virgin should say: or fingered only. Write something onit: page. If not what becomes of them? Decline, despair. Keeps them young.Even admire themselves. See. Play on her. Lip blow. Body of white woman,a flute alive. Blow gentle. Loud. Three holes, all women. Goddess I didntsee. They want it. Not too much polite. Thats why he gets them. Gold inyour pocket, brass in your face. Say something. Make her hear. With lookto look. Songs without words. Molly, that hurdygurdy boy. She knew hemeant the monkey was sick. Or because so like the Spanish. Understandanimals too that way. Solomon did. Gift of nature.Ventriloquise. My lips closed. Think in my stom. What?Will? You? I. Want. You. To.With hoarse rude fury the yeoman cursed, swelling in apoplecticbitchs bastard. A good thought, boy, to come. One hours your time tolive, your last.Tap. Tap.Thrill now. Pity they feel. To wipe away a tear for martyrs that wantto, dying to, die. For all things dying, for all things born. Poor MrsPurefoy. Hope shes over. Because their wombs.A liquid of womb of woman eyeball gazed under a fence of lashes,calmly, hearing. See real beauty of the eye when she not speaks. On yonderriver. At each slow satiny heaving bosoms wave (her heaving embon) redrose rose slowly sank red rose. Heartbeats: her breath: breath that islife. And all the tiny tiny fernfoils trembled of maidenhair.But look. The bright stars fade. O rose! Castile. The morn. Ha.Lidwell. For him then not for. Infatuated. I like that? See herfrom here though. Popped corks, splashes of beerfroth, stacks of empties.On the smooth jutting beerpull laid Lydia hand, lightly, plumply, leaveit to my hands. All lost in pity for croppy. Fro, to: to, fro: over thepolished knob (she knows his eyes, my eyes, her eyes) her thumb and fingerpassed in pity: passed, reposed and, gently touching, then slid sosmoothly, slowly down, a cool firm white enamel baton protruding throughtheir sliding ring.With a cock with a carra.Tap. Tap. Tap.I hold this house. Amen. He gnashed in fury. Traitors swing.The chords consented. Very sad thing. But had to be. Get out beforethe end. Thanks, that was heavenly. Wheres my hat. Pass by her. Canleave that Freeman. Letter I have. Suppose she were the? No. Walk,walk, walk. Like Cashel Boylo Connoro Coylo Tisdall Maurice TisntdallFarrell. Waaaaaaalk.Well, I must be. Are you off? Yrfmstbyes. Blmstup. Oer ryehigh blue.Ow. Bloom stood up. Soap feeling rather sticky behind. Must havesweated: music. That lotion, remember. Well, so long. High grade. Cardinside. Yes.By deaf Pat in the doorway straining ear Bloom passed.At Geneva barrack that young man died. At Passage was his bodylaid. Dolor! O, he dolores! The voice of the mournful chanter called todolorous prayer.By rose, by satiny bosom, by the fondling hand, by slops, by empties,by popped corks, greeting in going, past eyes and maidenhair, bronze andfaint gold in deepseashadow, went Bloom, soft Bloom, I feel so lonelyBloom.Tap. Tap. Tap.Pray for him, prayed the bass of Dollard. You who hear in peace. Breathea prayer, drop a tear, good men, good people. He was the croppy boy.Scaring eavesdropping boots croppy bootsboy Bloom in the Ormondhallway heard the growls and roars of bravo, fat backslapping, their bootsall treading, boots not the boots the boy. General chorus off for a swillto wash it down. Glad I avoided.--Come on, Ben, Simon Dedalus cried. By God, youre as good as ever youwere.--Better, said Tomgin Kernan. Most trenchant rendition of that ballad,upon my soul and honour It is.--Lablache, said Father Cowley.Ben Dollard bulkily cachuchad towards the bar, mightily praisefed and allbig roseate, on heavyfooted feet, his gouty fingers nakkering castagnettesin the air.Big Benaben Dollard. Big Benben. Big Benben.Rrr.And deepmoved all, Simon trumping compassion from foghorn nose,all laughing they brought him forth, Ben Dollard, in right good cheer.--Youre looking rubicund, George Lidwell said.Miss Douce composed her rose to wait.--Ben machree, said Mr Dedalus, clapping Bens fat back shoulderblade.Fit as a fiddle only he has a lot of adipose tissue concealed about hisperson.Rrrrrrrsss.--Fat of death, Simon, Ben Dollard growled.Richie rift in the lute alone sat: Goulding, Collis, Ward. Uncertainlyhe waited. Unpaid Pat too.Tap. Tap. Tap. Tap.Miss Mina Kennedy brought near her lips to ear of tankard one.--Mr Dollard, they murmured low.--Dollard, murmured tankard.Tank one believed: miss Kenn when she: that doll he was: she doll:the tank.He murmured that he knew the name. The name was familiar to him,that is to say. That was to say he had heard the name of. Dollard, was it?Dollard, yes.Yes, her lips said more loudly, Mr Dollard. He sang that song lovely,murmured Mina. Mr Dollard. And THE LAST ROSE OF SUMMER was a lovelysong. Mina loved that song. Tankard loved the song that Mina.Tis the last rose of summer dollard left bloom felt wind wound roundinside.Gassy thing that cider: binding too. Wait. Postoffice near Reuben Jsone and eightpence too. Get shut of it. Dodge round by Greek street. WishI hadnt promised to meet. Freer in air. Music. Gets on your nerves.Beerpull. Her hand that rocks the cradle rules the. Ben Howth. That rulesthe world.Far. Far. Far. Far.Tap. Tap. Tap. Tap.Up the quay went Lionelleopold, naughty Henry with letter forMady, with sweets of sin with frillies for Raoul with met him pike hoseswent Poldy on.Tap blind walked tapping by the tap the curbstone tapping, tap by tap.Cowley, he stuns himself with it: kind of drunkenness. Better giveway only half way the way of a man with a maid. Instance enthusiasts. Allears. Not lose a demisemiquaver. Eyes shut. Head nodding in time. Dotty.You darent budge. Thinking strictly prohibited. Always talking shop.Fiddlefaddle about notes.All a kind of attempt to talk. Unpleasant when it stops because younever know exac. Organ in Gardiner street. Old Glynn fifty quid a year.Queer up there in the cockloft, alone, with stops and locks and keys.Seated all day at the organ. Maunder on for hours, talking to himself orthe other fellow blowing the bellows. Growl angry, then shriek cursing(want to have wadding or something in his no dont she cried), then all ofa soft sudden wee little wee little pipy wind.Pwee! A wee little wind piped eeee. In Blooms little wee.--Was he? Mr Dedalus said, returning with fetched pipe. I was with himthis morning at poor little Paddy Dignams ...--Ay, the Lord have mercy on him.--By the bye theres a tuningfork in there on the ...Tap. Tap. Tap. Tap.--The wife has a fine voice. Or had. What? Lidwell asked.--O, that must be the tuner, Lydia said to Simonlionel first I saw, forgotit when he was here.Blind he was she told George Lidwell second I saw. And played soexquisitely, treat to hear. Exquisite contrast: bronzelid, minagold.--Shout! Ben Dollard shouted, pouring. Sing out!--lldo! cried Father Cowley.Rrrrrr.I feel I want ...Tap. Tap. Tap. Tap. Tap--Very, Mr Dedalus said, staring hard at a headless sardine.Under the sandwichbell lay on a bier of bread one last, one lonely, lastsardine of summer. Bloom alone.--Very, he stared. The lower register, for choice.Tap. Tap. Tap. Tap. Tap. Tap. Tap. Tap.Bloom went by Barrys. Wish I could. Wait. That wonderworker if Ihad. Twentyfour solicitors in that one house. Counted them. Litigation.Love one another. Piles of parchment. Messrs Pick and Pocket have powerof attorney. Goulding, Collis, Ward.But for example the chap that wallops the big drum. His vocation:Mickey Rooneys band. Wonder how it first struck him. Sitting at homeafter pigs cheek and cabbage nursing it in the armchair. Rehearsing hisband part. Pom. Pompedy. Jolly for the wife. Asses skins. Welt themthrough life, then wallop after death. Pom. Wallop. Seems to be what youcall yashmak or I mean kismet. Fate.Tap. Tap. A stripling, blind, with a tapping cane came taptaptappingby Dalys window where a mermaid hair all streaming (but he couldnt see)blew whiffs of a mermaid (blind couldnt), mermaid, coolest whiff of all.Instruments. A blade of grass, shell of her hands, then blow. Evencomb and tissuepaper you can knock a tune out of. Molly in her shift inLombard street west, hair down. I suppose each kind of trade made its own,dont you see? Hunter with a horn. Haw. Have you the? CLOCHE. SONNEZ LA.Shepherd his pipe. Pwee little wee. Policeman a whistle. Locks and keys!Sweep! Four oclocks alls well! Sleep! All is lost now. Drum? Pompedy.Wait. I know. Towncrier, bumbailiff. Long John. Waken the dead. Pom.Dignam. Poor little NOMINEDOMINE. Pom. It is music. I mean of course itsall pom pom pom very much what they call DA CAPO. Still you can hear. Aswe march, we march along, march along. Pom.I must really. Fff. Now if I did that at a banquet. Just a question ofcustom shah of Persia. Breathe a prayer, drop a tear. All the same he musthave been a bit of a natural not to see it was a yeoman cap. Muffled up.Wonder who was that chap at the grave in the brown macin. O, the whoreof the lane!A frowsy whore with black straw sailor hat askew came glazily in theday along the quay towards Mr Bloom. When first he saw that formendearing? Yes, it is. I feel so lonely. Wet night in the lane. Horn. Whohad the? Heehaw shesaw. Off her beat here. What is she? Hope she. Psst!Any chance of your wash. Knew Molly. Had me decked. Stout lady does bewith you in the brown costume. Put you off your stroke, that. Appointmentwe made knowing wed never, well hardly ever. Too dear too near to homesweet home. Sees me, does she? Looks a fright in the day. Face like dip.Damn her. O, well, she has to live like the rest. Look in here.In Lionel Markss antique saleshop window haughty Henry LionelLeopold dear Henry Flower earnestly Mr Leopold Bloom envisagedbattered candlesticks melodeon oozing maggoty blowbags. Bargain: six bob.Might learn to play. Cheap. Let her pass. Course everything is dear ifyou dont want it. Thats what good salesman is. Make you buy what hewants to sell. Chap sold me the Swedish razor he shaved me with. Wantedto charge me for the edge he gave it. Shes passing now. Six bob.Must be the cider or perhaps the burgund.Near bronze from anear near gold from afar they chinked their clinkingglasses all, brighteyed and gallant, before bronze Lydias temptinglast rose of summer, rose of Castile. First Lid, De, Cow, Ker, Doll, afifth: Lidwell, Si Dedalus, Bob Cowley, Kernan and big Ben Dollard.Tap. A youth entered a lonely Ormond hall.Bloom viewed a gallant pictured hero in Lionel Markss window. RobertEmmets last words. Seven last words. Of Meyerbeer that is.--True men like you men.--Ay, ay, Ben.--Will lift your glass with us.They lifted.Tschink. Tschunk.Tip. An unseeing stripling stood in the door. He saw not bronze. Hesaw not gold. Nor Ben nor Bob nor Tom nor Si nor George nor tanks norRichie nor Pat. Hee hee hee hee. He did not see.Seabloom, greaseabloom viewed last words. Softly. WHEN MY COUNTRYTAKES HER PLACE AMONG.Prrprr.Must be the bur.Fff! Oo. Rrpr.NATIONS OF THE EARTH. No-one behind. Shes passed. THEN AND NOT TILLTHEN. Tram kran kran kran. Good oppor. Coming. Krandlkrankran. Imsure its the burgund. Yes. One, two. LET MY EPITAPH BE. Kraaaaaa.WRITTEN. I HAVE.Pprrpffrrppffff.DONE.    * * * * * * *I was just passing the time of day with old Troy of the D. M. P. at thecorner of Arbour hill there and be damned but a bloody sweep came alongand he near drove his gear into my eye. I turned around to let him havethe weight of my tongue when who should I see dodging along Stony Batteronly Joe Hynes.--Lo, Joe, says I. How are you blowing? Did you see that bloodychimneysweep near shove my eye out with his brush?--Soots luck, says Joe. Whos the old ballocks you were talking to?--Old Troy, says I, was in the force. Im on two minds not to give thatfellow in charge for obstructing the thoroughfare with his brooms andladders.--What are you doing round those parts? says Joe.--Devil a much, says I. Theres a bloody big foxy thief beyond by thegarrison church at the corner of Chicken lane--old Troy was just givingme a wrinkle about him--lifted any Gods quantity of tea and sugar to paythree bob a week said he had a farm in the county Down off ahop-of-my-thumb by the name of Moses Herzog over there near Heytesburystreet.--Circumcised? says Joe.--Ay, says I. A bit off the top. An old plumber named Geraghty. Imhanging on to his taw now for the past fortnight and I cant get a pennyout of him.--That the lay youre on now? says Joe.--Ay, says I. How are the mighty fallen! Collector of bad and doubtfuldebts. But thats the most notorious bloody robber youd meet in a dayswalk and the face on him all pockmarks would hold a shower of rain. TELLHIM, says he, I DARE HIM, says he, AND I DOUBLEDARE HIM TO SEND YOU ROUNDHERE AGAIN OR IF HE DOES, says he, ILL HAVE HIM SUMMONSED UP BEFORE THECOURT, SO I WILL, FOR TRADING WITHOUT A LICENCE. And he after stuffinghimself till hes fit to burst. Jesus, I had to laugh at the little jewygetting his shirt out. HE DRINK ME MY TEAS. HE EAT ME MY SUGARS. BECAUSEHE NO PAY ME MY MONEYS?For nonperishable goods bought of Moses Herzog, of  SaintKevins parade in the city of Dublin, Wood quay ward, merchant,hereinafter called the vendor, and sold and delivered to Michael E.Geraghty, esquire, of  Arbour hill in the city of Dublin, Arran quayward, gentleman, hereinafter called the purchaser, videlicet, five poundsavoirdupois of first choice tea at three shillings and no pence per poundavoirdupois and three stone avoirdupois of sugar, crushed crystal, atthreepence per pound avoirdupois, the said purchaser debtor to the saidvendor of one pound five shillings and sixpence sterling for valuereceived which amount shall be paid by said purchaser to said vendor inweekly instalments every seven calendar days of three shillings and nopence sterling: and the said nonperishable goods shall not be pawned orpledged or sold or otherwise alienated by the said purchaser but shall beand remain and be held to be the sole and exclusive property of the saidvendor to be disposed of at his good will and pleasure until the saidamount shall have been duly paid by the said purchaser to the said vendorin the manner herein set forth as this day hereby agreed between the saidvendor, his heirs, successors, trustees and assigns of the one part andthe said purchaser, his heirs, successors, trustees and assigns of theother part.--Are you a strict t.t.? says Joe.--Not taking anything between drinks, says I.--What about paying our respects to our friend? says Joe.--Who? says I. Sure, hes out in John of Gods off his head, poor man.--Drinking his own stuff? says Joe.--Ay, says I. Whisky and water on the brain.--Come around to Barney Kiernans, says Joe. I want to see the citizen.--Barney mavourneens be it, says I. Anything strange or wonderful, Joe?--Not a word, says Joe. I was up at that meeting in the City Arms.---What was that, Joe? says I.--Cattle traders, says Joe, about the foot and mouth disease. I want togive the citizen the hard word about it.So we went around by the Linenhall barracks and the back of thecourthouse talking of one thing or another. Decent fellow Joe when he hasit but sure like that he never has it. Jesus, I couldnt get over thatbloody foxy Geraghty, the daylight robber. For trading without a licence,says he.In Inisfail the fair there lies a land, the land of holy Michan. Thererises a watchtower beheld of men afar. There sleep the mighty dead as inlife they slept, warriors and princes of high renown. A pleasant land itis in sooth of murmuring waters, fishful streams where sport the gurnard,the plaice, the roach, the halibut, the gibbed haddock, the grilse,the dab, the brill, the flounder, the pollock, the mixed coarse fishgenerally and other denizens of the aqueous kingdom too numerous to beenumerated. In the mild breezes of the west and of the east the loftytrees wave in different directions their firstclass foliage, the waftysycamore, the Lebanonian cedar, the exalted planetree, the eugeniceucalyptus and other ornaments of the arboreal world with which thatregion is thoroughly well supplied. Lovely maidens sit in close proximityto the roots of the lovely trees singing the most lovely songs while theyplay with all kinds of lovely objects as for example golden ingots,silvery fishes, crans of herrings, drafts of eels, codlings, creels offingerlings, purple seagems and playful insects.  And heroes voyage fromafar to woo them, from Eblana to Slievemargy, the peerless princes ofunfettered Munster and of Connacht the just and of smooth sleek Leinsterand of Cruahans land and of Armagh the splendid and of the noble districtof Boyle, princes, the sons of kings.And there rises a shining palace whose crystal glittering roof is seen bymariners who traverse the extensive sea in barks built expressly for thatpurpose, and thither come all herds and fatlings and firstfruits of thatland for OConnell Fitzsimon takes toll of them, a chieftain descendedfrom chieftains.  Thither the extremely large wains bring foison of thefields, flaskets of cauliflowers, floats of spinach, pineapple chunks,Rangoon beans, strikes of tomatoes, drums of figs, drills of Swedes,spherical potatoes and tallies of iridescent kale, York and Savoy, andtrays of onions, pearls of the earth, and punnets of mushrooms andcustard marrows and fat vetches and bere and rape and red green yellowbrown russet sweet big bitter ripe pomellated apples and chips ofstrawberries and sieves of gooseberries, pulpy and pelurious, andstrawberries fit for princes and raspberries from their canes.I dare him, says he, and I doubledare him. Come out here, Geraghty,you notorious bloody hill and dale robber!And by that way wend the herds innumerable of bellwethers andflushed ewes and shearling rams and lambs and stubble geese and mediumsteers and roaring mares and polled calves and longwoods and storesheepand Cuffes prime springers and culls and sowpigs and baconhogs and thevarious different varieties of highly distinguished swine and Angusheifers and polly bulllocks of immaculate pedigree together with primepremiated milchcows and beeves: and there is ever heard a trampling,cackling, roaring, lowing, bleating, bellowing, rumbling, grunting,champing, chewing, of sheep and pigs and heavyhooved kine frompasturelands of Lusk and Rush and Carrickmines and from the streamy valesof Thomond, from the MGillicuddys reeks the inaccessible and lordlyShannon the unfathomable, and from the gentle declivities of the place ofthe race of Kiar, their udders distended with superabundance of milk andbutts of butter and rennets of cheese and farmers firkins and targets oflamb and crannocks of corn and oblong eggs in great hundreds, various insize, the agate with this dun.So we turned into Barney Kiernans and there, sure enough, was the citizenup in the corner having a great confab with himself and that bloodymangy mongrel, Garryowen, and he waiting for what the sky would dropin the way of drink.--There he is, says I, in his gloryhole, with his cruiskeen lawn and hisload of papers, working for the cause.The bloody mongrel let a grouse out of him would give you the creeps.  Bea corporal work of mercy if someone would take the life of thatbloody dog. Im told for a fact he ate a good part of the breeches off aconstabulary man in Santry that came round one time with a blue paperabout a licence.--Stand and deliver, says he.--Thats all right, citizen, says Joe. Friends here.--Pass, friends, says he.Then he rubs his hand in his eye and says he:--Whats your opinion of the times?Doing the rapparee and Rory of the hill. But, begob, Joe was equal tothe occasion.--I think the markets are on a rise, says he, sliding his hand down hisfork.So begob the citizen claps his paw on his knee and he says:--Foreign wars is the cause of it.And says Joe, sticking his thumb in his pocket:--Its the Russians wish to tyrannise.--Arrah, give over your bloody codding, Joe, says I. Ive a thirst on me Iwouldnt sell for half a crown.--Give it a name, citizen, says Joe.--Wine of the country, says he.--Whats yours? says Joe.--Ditto MacAnaspey, says I.--Three pints, Terry, says Joe. And hows the old heart, citizen? says he.--Never better, A CHARA, says he. What Garry? Are we going to win? Eh?And with that he took the bloody old towser by the scruff of the neckand, by Jesus, he near throttled him.The figure seated on a large boulder at the foot of a round towerwas that of a broadshouldered deepchested stronglimbed frankeyedredhaired freelyfreckled shaggybearded widemouthed largenosedlongheaded deepvoiced barekneed brawnyhanded hairylegged ruddyfacedsinewyarmed hero. From shoulder to shoulder he measured several ells andhis rocklike mountainous knees were covered, as was likewise the rest ofhis body wherever visible, with a strong growth of tawny prickly hair inhue and toughness similar to the mountain gorse (ULEX EUROPEUS). Thewidewinged nostrils, from which bristles of the same tawny hue projected,were of such capaciousness that within their cavernous obscurity thefieldlark might easily have lodged her nest. The eyes in which a tear anda smile strove ever for the mastery were of the dimensions of a goodsizedcauliflower. A powerful current of warm breath issued at regular intervalsfrom the profound cavity of his mouth while in rhythmic resonance theloud strong hale reverberations of his formidable heart thunderedrumblingly causing the ground, the summit of the lofty tower and the stillloftier walls of the cave to vibrate and tremble.He wore a long unsleeved garment of recently flayed oxhide reaching to theknees in a loose kilt and this was bound about his middle by a girdle ofplaited straw and rushes. Beneath this he wore trews of deerskin, roughlystitched with gut. His nether extremities were encased in high Balbrigganbuskins dyed in lichen purple, the feet being shod with brogues of saltedcowhide laced with the windpipe of the same beast. From his girdle hung arow of seastones which jangled at every movement of his portentous frameand on these were graven with rude yet striking art the tribal images ofmany Irish heroes and heroines of antiquity, Cuchulin, Conn of hundredbattles, Niall of nine hostages, Brian of Kincora, the ardri Malachi, ArtMacMurragh, Shane ONeill, Father John Murphy, Owen Roe, PatrickSarsfield, Red Hugh ODonnell, Red Jim MacDermott, Soggarth EoghanOGrowney, Michael Dwyer, Francy Higgins, Henry Joy MCracken,Goliath, Horace Wheatley, Thomas Conneff, Peg Woffington, the VillageBlacksmith, Captain Moonlight, Captain Boycott, Dante Alighieri,Christopher Columbus, S. Fursa, S. Brendan, Marshal MacMahon,Charlemagne, Theobald Wolfe Tone, the Mother of the Maccabees, the Lastof the Mohicans, the Rose of Castile, the Man for Galway, The Man thatBroke the Bank at Monte Carlo, The Man in the Gap, The Woman WhoDidnt, Benjamin Franklin, Napoleon Bonaparte, John L. Sullivan,Cleopatra, Savourneen Deelish, Julius Caesar, Paracelsus, sir ThomasLipton, William Tell, Michelangelo Hayes, Muhammad, the Bride ofLammermoor, Peter the Hermit, Peter the Packer, Dark Rosaleen, PatrickW. Shakespeare, Brian Confucius, Murtagh Gutenberg, PatricioVelasquez, Captain Nemo, Tristan and Isolde, the first Prince of Wales,Thomas Cook and Son, the Bold Soldier Boy, Arrah na Pogue, DickTurpin, Ludwig Beethoven, the Colleen Bawn, Waddler Healy, Angus theCuldee, Dolly Mount, Sidney Parade, Ben Howth, Valentine Greatrakes,Adam and Eve, Arthur Wellesley, Boss Croker, Herodotus, Jack theGiantkiller, Gautama Buddha, Lady Godiva, The Lily of Killarney, Balorof the Evil Eye, the Queen of Sheba, Acky Nagle, Joe Nagle, AlessandroVolta, Jeremiah ODonovan Rossa, Don Philip OSullivan Beare. Acouched spear of acuminated granite rested by him while at his feetreposed a savage animal of the canine tribe whose stertorous gaspsannounced that he was sunk in uneasy slumber, a supposition confirmed byhoarse growls and spasmodic movements which his master repressed from timeto time by tranquilising blows of a mighty cudgel rudely fashioned out ofpaleolithic stone.So anyhow Terry brought the three pints Joe was standing and begobthe sight nearly left my eyes when I saw him land out a quid O, as true asIm telling you. A goodlooking sovereign.--And theres more where that came from, says he.--Were you robbing the poorbox, Joe? says I.--Sweat of my brow, says Joe. Twas the prudent member gave me the wheeze.--I saw him before I met you, says I, sloping around by Pill lane andGreek street with his cods eye counting up all the guts of the fish.Who comes through Michans land, bedight in sable armour? OBloom,the son of Rory: it is he. Impervious to fear is Rorys son: heof the prudent soul.--For the old woman of Princes street, says the citizen, the subsidisedorgan. The pledgebound party on the floor of the house. And look at thisblasted rag, says he. Look at this, says he. THE IRISH INDEPENDENT, if youplease, founded by Parnell to be the workingmans friend. Listen to thebirths and deaths in the IRISH ALL FOR IRELAND INDEPENDENT, and Ill thankyou and the marriages.And he starts reading them out:--Gordon, Barnfield crescent, Exeter; Redmayne of Iffley, Saint Annes onSea: the wife of William T Redmayne of a son. Hows that, eh? Wright andFlint, Vincent and Gillett to Rotha Marion daughter of Rosa and the lateGeorge Alfred Gillett,  Clapham road, Stockwell, Playwood andRidsdale at Saint Judes, Kensington by the very reverend Dr Forrest, deanof Worcester. Eh? Deaths. Bristow, at Whitehall lane, London: Carr, StokeNewington, of gastritis and heart disease: Cockburn, at the Moat house,Chepstow ...--I know that fellow, says Joe, from bitter experience.--Cockburn. Dimsey, wife of David Dimsey, late of the admiralty: Miller,Tottenham, aged eightyfive: Welsh, June , at  Canning street,Liverpool, Isabella Helen. Hows that for a national press, eh, my brownson! Hows that for Martin Murphy, the Bantry jobber?--Ah, well, says Joe, handing round the boose. Thanks be to God they hadthe start of us. Drink that, citizen.--I will, says he, honourable person.--Health, Joe, says I. And all down the form.Ah! Ow! Dont be talking! I was blue mouldy for the want of thatpint. Declare to God I could hear it hit the pit of my stomach with aclick.And lo, as they quaffed their cup of joy, a godlike messenger cameswiftly in, radiant as the eye of heaven, a comely youth and behind himthere passed an elder of noble gait and countenance, bearing the sacredscrolls of law and with him his lady wife a dame of peerless lineage,fairest of her race.Little Alf Bergan popped in round the door and hid behind Barneyssnug, squeezed up with the laughing. And who was sitting up there in thecorner that I hadnt seen snoring drunk blind to the world only Bob Doran.I didnt know what was up and Alf kept making signs out of the door. Andbegob what was it only that bloody old pantaloon Denis Breen in hisbathslippers with two bloody big books tucked under his oxter and the wifehotfoot after him, unfortunate wretched woman, trotting like a poodle. Ithought Alf would split.--Look at him, says he. Breen. Hes traipsing all round Dublin with apostcard someone sent him with U. p: up on it to take a li ...And he doubled up.--Take a what? says I.--Libel action, says he, for ten thousand pounds.--O hell! says I.The bloody mongrel began to growl thatd put the fear of God in youseeing something was up but the citizen gave him a kick in the ribs.--BI I DHO HUSHT, says he.--Who? says Joe.--Breen, says Alf. He was in John Henry Mentons and then he went roundto Collis and Wards and then Tom Rochford met him and sent him roundto the subsheriffs for a lark. O God, Ive a pain laughing. U. p: up. Thelong fellow gave him an eye as good as a process and now the bloody oldlunatic is gone round to Green street to look for a G man.--When is long John going to hang that fellow in Mountjoy? says Joe.--Bergan, says Bob Doran, waking up. Is that Alf Bergan?--Yes, says Alf. Hanging? Wait till I show you. Here, Terry, give us apony. That bloody old fool! Ten thousand pounds. You should have seen longJohns eye. U. p ...And he started laughing.--Who are you laughing at? says Bob Doran. Is that Bergan?--Hurry up, Terry boy, says Alf.Terence ORyan heard him and straightway brought him a crystalcup full of the foamy ebon ale which the noble twin brothers Bungiveaghand Bungardilaun brew ever in their divine alevats, cunning as the sons ofdeathless Leda. For they garner the succulent berries of the hop and massand sift and bruise and brew them and they mix therewith sour juices andbring the must to the sacred fire and cease not night or day from theirtoil, those cunning brothers, lords of the vat.Then did you, chivalrous Terence, hand forth, as to the manner born,that nectarous beverage and you offered the crystal cup to him thatthirsted, the soul of chivalry, in beauty akin to the immortals.But he, the young chief of the OBergans, could ill brook to be outdonein generous deeds but gave therefor with gracious gesture a testoonof costliest bronze. Thereon embossed in excellent smithwork was seen theimage of a queen of regal port, scion of the house of Brunswick, Victoriaher name, Her Most Excellent Majesty, by grace of God of the UnitedKingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British dominions beyondthe sea, queen, defender of the faith, Empress of India, even she, whobore rule, a victress over many peoples, the wellbeloved, for they knewand loved her from the rising of the sun to the going down thereof, thepale, the dark, the ruddy and the ethiop.--Whats that bloody freemason doing, says the citizen, prowling up anddown outside?--Whats that? says Joe.--Here you are, says Alf, chucking out the rhino. Talking about hanging,Ill show you something you never saw. Hangmens letters. Look at here.So he took a bundle of wisps of letters and envelopes out of his pocket.--Are you codding? says I.--Honest injun, says Alf. Read them.So Joe took up the letters.--Who are you laughing at? says Bob Doran.So I saw there was going to be a bit of a dust Bobs a queer chapwhen the porters up in him so says I just to make talk:--Hows Willy Murray those times, Alf?--I dont know, says Alf I saw him just now in Capel street with PaddyDignam. Only I was running after that ...--You what? says Joe, throwing down the letters. With who?--With Dignam, says Alf.--Is it Paddy? says Joe.--Yes, says Alf. Why?--Dont you know hes dead? says Joe.--Paddy Dignam dead! says Alf.--Ay, says Joe.--Sure Im after seeing him not five minutes ago, says Alf, as plain as apikestaff.--Whos dead? says Bob Doran.--You saw his ghost then, says Joe, God between us and harm.--What? says Alf. Good Christ, only five ... What? ... And Willy Murraywith him, the two of them there near whatdoyoucallhims ... What?Dignam dead?--What about Dignam? says Bob Doran. Whos talking about ...?--Dead! says Alf. Hes no more dead than you are.--Maybe so, says Joe. They took the liberty of burying him this morninganyhow.--Paddy? says Alf.--Ay, says Joe. He paid the debt of nature, God be merciful to him.--Good Christ! says Alf.Begob he was what you might call flabbergasted.In the darkness spirit hands were felt to flutter and when prayer bytantras had been directed to the proper quarter a faint but increasingluminosity of ruby light became gradually visible, the apparition of theetheric double being particularly lifelike owing to the discharge of jivicrays from the crown of the head and face. Communication was effectedthrough the pituitary body and also by means of the orangefiery andscarlet rays emanating from the sacral region and solar plexus. Questionedby his earthname as to his whereabouts in the heavenworld he stated thathe was now on the path of pr l ya or return but was still submitted totrial at the hands of certain bloodthirsty entities on the lower astrallevels. In reply to a question as to his first sensations in the greatdivide beyond he stated that previously he had seen as in a glass darklybut that those who had passed over had summit possibilities of atmicdevelopment opened up to them. Interrogated as to whether life thereresembled our experience in the flesh he stated that he had heard frommore favoured beings now in the spirit that their abodes were equippedwith every modern home comfort such as talafana, alavatar, hatakalda,wataklasat and that the highest adepts were steeped in waves of volupcyof the very purest nature. Having requested a quart of buttermilk this wasbrought and evidently afforded relief. Asked if he had any messagefor the living he exhorted all who were still at the wrong side of Mayato acknowledge the true path for it was reported in devanic circles thatMars and Jupiter were out for mischief on the eastern angle where theram has power. It was then queried whether there were any specialdesires on the part of the defunct and the reply was: WE GREET YOU,FRIENDS OF EARTH, WHO ARE STILL IN THE BODY. MIND C. K. DOESNT PILE ITON. It was ascertained that the reference was to Mr Cornelius Kelleher,manager of Messrs H. J. ONeills popular funeral establishment, apersonal friend of the defunct, who had been responsible for the carryingout of the interment arrangements. Before departing he requested that itshould be told to his dear son Patsy that the other boot which he had beenlooking for was at present under the commode in the return room and thatthe pair should be sent to Cullens to be soled only as the heels werestill good. He stated that this had greatly perturbed his peace of mind inthe other region and earnestly requested that his desire should be madeknown.Assurances were given that the matter would be attended to and it wasintimated that this had given satisfaction.He is gone from mortal haunts: ODignam, sun of our morning. Fleetwas his foot on the bracken: Patrick of the beamy brow. Wail, Banba, withyour wind: and wail, O ocean, with your whirlwind.--There he is again, says the citizen, staring out.--Who? says I.--Bloom, says he. Hes on point duty up and down there for the last tenminutes.And, begob, I saw his physog do a peep in and then slidder off again.Little Alf was knocked bawways. Faith, he was.--Good Christ! says he. I could have sworn it was him.And says Bob Doran, with the hat on the back of his poll, lowestblackguard in Dublin when hes under the influence:--Who said Christ is good?--I beg your parsnips, says Alf.--Is that a good Christ, says Bob Doran, to take away poor little WillyDignam?--Ah, well, says Alf, trying to pass it off. Hes over all his troubles.But Bob Doran shouts out of him.--Hes a bloody ruffian, I say, to take away poor little Willy Dignam.Terry came down and tipped him the wink to keep quiet, that theydidnt want that kind of talk in a respectable licensed premises. And BobDoran starts doing the weeps about Paddy Dignam, true as youre there.--The finest man, says he, snivelling, the finest purest character.The tear is bloody near your eye. Talking through his bloody hat.Fitter for him go home to the little sleepwalking bitch he married,Mooney, the bumbailiffs daughter, mother kept a kip in Hardwicke street,that used to be stravaging about the landings Bantam Lyons told me thatwas stopping there at two in the morning without a stitch on her, exposingher person, open to all comers, fair field and no favour.--The noblest, the truest, says he. And hes gone, poor little Willy, poorlittle Paddy Dignam.And mournful and with a heavy heart he bewept the extinction of thatbeam of heaven.Old Garryowen started growling again at Bloom that was skeezinground the door.--Come in, come on, he wont eat you, says the citizen.So Bloom slopes in with his cods eye on the dog and he asks Terrywas Martin Cunningham there.--O, Christ MKeown, says Joe, reading one of the letters. Listen to this,will you?And he starts reading out one.                 HUNTER STREET, LIVERPOOL.        TO THE HIGH SHERIFF OF DUBLIN, DUBLIN.    HONOURED SIR I BEG TO OFFER MY SERVICES IN THE ABOVEMENTIONED PAINFULCASE I HANGED JOE GANN IN BOOTLE JAIL ON THE  OF FEBUARY  AND IHANGED ...--Show us, Joe, says I.-- ... PRIVATE ARTHUR CHACE FOR FOWL MURDER OF JESSIE TILSIT INPENTONVILLE PRISON AND I WAS ASSISTANT WHEN ...--Jesus, says I.-- ... BILLINGTON EXECUTED THE AWFUL MURDERER TOAD SMITH ...The citizen made a grab at the letter.--Hold hard, says Joe, I HAVE A SPECIAL NACK OF PUTTING THE NOOSE ONCE INHE CANT GET OUT HOPING TO BE FAVOURED I REMAIN, HONOURED SIR, MY TERMS ISFIVE GINNEES.            H. RUMBOLD,                MASTER BARBER.--And a barbarous bloody barbarian he is too, says the citizen.--And the dirty scrawl of the wretch, says Joe. Here, says he, take themto hell out of my sight, Alf. Hello, Bloom, says he, what will you have?So they started arguing about the point, Bloom saying he wouldntand he couldnt and excuse him no offence and all to that and then he saidwell hed just take a cigar. Gob, hes a prudent member and no mistake.--Give us one of your prime stinkers, Terry, says Joe.And Alf was telling us there was one chap sent in a mourning cardwith a black border round it.--Theyre all barbers, says he, from the black country that would hangtheir own fathers for five quid down and travelling expenses.And he was telling us theres two fellows waiting below to pull hisheels down when he gets the drop and choke him properly and then theychop up the rope after and sell the bits for a few bob a skull.In the dark land they bide, the vengeful knights of the razor. Theirdeadly coil they grasp: yea, and therein they lead to Erebus whatsoeverwight hath done a deed of blood for I will on nowise suffer it even sosaith the Lord.So they started talking about capital punishment and of course Bloomcomes out with the why and the wherefore and all the codology of thebusiness and the old dog smelling him all the time Im told those jewiesdoes have a sort of a queer odour coming off them for dogs about I dontknow what all deterrent effect and so forth and so on.--Theres one thing it hasnt a deterrent effect on, says Alf.--Whats that? says Joe.--The poor buggers tool thats being hanged, says Alf.--That so? says Joe.--Gods truth, says Alf. I heard that from the head warder that was inKilmainham when they hanged Joe Brady, the invincible. He told me whenthey cut him down after the drop it was standing up in their faces like apoker.--Ruling passion strong in death, says Joe, as someone said.--That can be explained by science, says Bloom. Its only a naturalphenomenon, dont you see, because on account of the ...And then he starts with his jawbreakers about phenomenon andscience and this phenomenon and the other phenomenon.The distinguished scientist Herr Professor Luitpold Blumendufttendered medical evidence to the effect that the instantaneous fracture ofthe cervical vertebrae and consequent scission of the spinal cord would,according to the best approved tradition of medical science, be calculatedto inevitably produce in the human subject a violent ganglionic stimulusof the nerve centres of the genital apparatus, thereby causing the elasticpores of the CORPORA CAVERNOSA to rapidly dilate in such a way as toinstantaneously facilitate the flow of blood to that part of the humananatomy known as the penis or male organ resulting in the phenomenon whichhas been denominated by the faculty a morbid upwards and outwardsphiloprogenitive erection IN ARTICULO MORTIS PER DIMINUTIONEM CAPITIS.So of course the citizen was only waiting for the wink of the word andhe starts gassing out of him about the invincibles and the old guard andthe men of sixtyseven and who fears to speak of ninetyeight and Joe withhim about all the fellows that were hanged, drawn and transported for thecause by drumhead courtmartial and a new Ireland and new this, that andthe other. Talking about new Ireland he ought to go and get a new dog sohe ought. Mangy ravenous brute sniffing and sneezing all round the placeand scratching his scabs. And round he goes to Bob Doran that wasstanding Alf a half one sucking up for what he could get. So of course BobDoran starts doing the bloody fool with him:--Give us the paw! Give the paw, doggy! Good old doggy! Give the pawhere! Give us the paw!Arrah, bloody end to the paw hed paw and Alf trying to keep himfrom tumbling off the bloody stool atop of the bloody old dog and hetalking all kinds of drivel about training by kindness and thoroughbreddog and intelligent dog: give you the bloody pip. Then he starts scrapinga few bits of old biscuit out of the bottom of a Jacobs tin he told Terryto bring. Gob, he golloped it down like old boots and his tongue hangingout of him a yard long for more. Near ate the tin and all, hungry bloodymongrel.And the citizen and Bloom having an argument about the point, thebrothers Sheares and Wolfe Tone beyond on Arbour Hill and RobertEmmet and die for your country, the Tommy Moore touch about SaraCurran and shes far from the land. And Bloom, of course, with hisknockmedown cigar putting on swank with his lardy face. Phenomenon!The fat heap he married is a nice old phenomenon with a back on her like aballalley. Time they were stopping up in the CITY ARMS pisser Burke toldme there was an old one there with a cracked loodheramaun of a nephew andBloom trying to get the soft side of her doing the mollycoddle playingbezique to come in for a bit of the wampum in her will and not eating meatof a Friday because the old one was always thumping her craw and takingthe lout out for a walk. And one time he led him the rounds of Dublin and,by the holy farmer, he never cried crack till he brought him home as drunkas a boiled owl and he said he did it to teach him the evils of alcoholand by herrings, if the three women didnt near roast him, its a queerstory, the old one, Blooms wife and Mrs ODowd that kept the hotel.Jesus, I had to laugh at pisser Burke taking them off chewing the fat.And Bloom with his BUT DONT YOU SEE? and BUT ON THE OTHER HAND. And sure,more be token, the lout Im told was in Powers after, the blenders,round in Cope street going home footless in a cab five times in the weekafter drinking his way through all the samples in the bloodyestablishment. Phenomenon!--The memory of the dead, says the citizen taking up his pintglass andglaring at Bloom.--Ay, ay, says Joe.--You dont grasp my point, says Bloom. What I mean is ...--SINN FEIN! says the citizen. SINN FEIN AMHAIN! The friends we love areby our side and the foes we hate before us.The last farewell was affecting in the extreme. From the belfries farand near the funereal deathbell tolled unceasingly while all around thegloomy precincts rolled the ominous warning of a hundred muffled drumspunctuated by the hollow booming of pieces of ordnance. The deafeningclaps of thunder and the dazzling flashes of lightning which lit up theghastly scene testified that the artillery of heaven had lent itssupernatural pomp to the already gruesome spectacle. A torrential rainpoured down from the floodgates of the angry heavens upon the bared headsof the assembled multitude which numbered at the lowest computation fivehundred thousand persons. A posse of Dublin Metropolitan policesuperintended by the Chief Commissioner in person maintained order inthe vast throng for whom the York street brass and reed band whiled awaythe intervening time by admirably rendering on their blackdrapedinstruments the matchless melody endeared to us from the cradle bySperanzas plaintive muse. Special quick excursion trains and upholsteredcharabancs had been provided for the comfort of our country cousins ofwhom there were large contingents. Considerable amusement was causedby the favourite Dublin streetsingers L-n-h-n and M-ll-g-n who sang TheNIGHT BEFORE LARRY WAS STRETCHED in their usual mirth-provoking fashion.Our two inimitable drolls did a roaring trade with their broadsheets amonglovers of the comedy element and nobody who has a corner in his heart forreal Irish fun without vulgarity will grudge them their hardearnedpennies. The children of the Male and Female Foundling Hospital whothronged the windows overlooking the scene were delighted with thisunexpected addition to the days entertainment and a word of praise is dueto the Little Sisters of the Poor for their excellent idea of affordingthe poor fatherless and motherless children a genuinely instructive treat.The viceregal houseparty which included many wellknown ladies waschaperoned by Their Excellencies to the most favourable positions on thegrandstand while the picturesque foreign delegation known as the Friendsof the Emerald Isle was accommodated on a tribune directly opposite.The delegation, present in full force, consisted of CommendatoreBacibaci Beninobenone (the semiparalysed DOYEN of the party who hadto be assisted to his seat by the aid of a powerful steam crane),Monsieur Pierrepaul Petitepatant, the Grandjoker VladinmirePokethankertscheff, the Archjoker Leopold Rudolph vonSchwanzenbad-Hodenthaler, Countess Marha Viraga Kisaszony Putrapesthi,Hiram Y. Bomboost, Count Athanatos Karamelopulos, Ali Baba BacksheeshRahat Lokum Effendi, Senor Hidalgo Caballero Don Pecadillo yPalabras y Paternoster de la Malora de la Malaria, Hokopoko Harakiri,Hi Hung Chang, Olaf Kobberkeddelsen, Mynheer Trik van Trumps,Pan Poleaxe Paddyrisky, Goosepond Prhklstr Kratchinabritchisitch,Borus Hupinkoff, Herr Hurhausdirektorpresident Hans Chuechli-Steuerli,Nationalgymnasiummuseumsanatoriumandsuspensoriumsordinaryprivatdocent-generalhistoryspecialprofessordoctor Kriegfried Ueberallgemein.All the delegates without exception expressed themselves in thestrongest possible heterogeneous terms concerning the namelessbarbarity which they had been called upon to witness. An animatedaltercation (in which all took part) ensued among the F. O. T. E. I.as to whether the eighth or the ninth of March was the correctdate of the birth of Irelands patron saint. In the course of theargument cannonballs, scimitars, boomerangs, blunderbusses, stinkpots,meatchoppers, umbrellas, catapults, knuckledusters, sandbags, lumps of pigiron were resorted to and blows were freely exchanged. The babypoliceman, Constable MacFadden, summoned by special courier fromBooterstown, quickly restored order and with lightning promptitudeproposed the seventeenth of the month as a solution equally honourable forboth contending parties. The readywitted ninefooters suggestion at onceappealed to all and was unanimously accepted. Constable MacFadden washeartily congratulated by all the F.O.T.E.I., several of whom werebleeding profusely. Commendatore Beninobenone having been extricatedfrom underneath the presidential armchair, it was explained by his legaladviser Avvocato Pagamimi that the various articles secreted in histhirtytwo pockets had been abstracted by him during the affray from thepockets of his junior colleagues in the hope of bringing them to theirsenses. The objects (which included several hundred ladies andgentlemens gold and silver watches) were promptly restored to theirrightful owners and general harmony reigned supreme.Quietly, unassumingly Rumbold stepped on to the scaffold in faultlessmorning dress and wearing his favourite flower, the GLADIOLUS CRUENTUS.He announced his presence by that gentle Rumboldian cough which somany have tried (unsuccessfully) to imitate--short, painstaking yet withalso characteristic of the man. The arrival of the worldrenowned headsmanwas greeted by a roar of acclamation from the huge concourse, theviceregal ladies waving their handkerchiefs in their excitement while theeven more excitable foreign delegates cheered vociferously in a medley ofcries, HOCH, BANZAI, ELJEN, ZIVIO, CHINCHIN, POLLA KRONIA, HIPHIP, VIVE,ALLAH, amid which the ringing evviva of the delegate of the land of song(a high double F recalling those piercingly lovely notes with which theeunuch Catalani beglamoured our greatgreatgrandmothers) was easilydistinguishable. It was exactly seventeen oclock. The signal for prayerwas then promptly given by megaphone and in an instant all heads werebared, the commendatores patriarchal sombrero, which has been in thepossession of his family since the revolution of Rienzi, being removed byhis medical adviser in attendance, Dr Pippi. The learned prelate whoadministered the last comforts of holy religion to the hero martyr whenabout to pay the death penalty knelt in a most christian spirit in a poolof rainwater, his cassock above his hoary head, and offered up to thethrone of grace fervent prayers of supplication. Hand by the block stoodthe grim figure of the executioner, his visage being concealed in atengallon pot with two circular perforated apertures through whichhis eyes glowered furiously. As he awaited the fatal signal hetested the edge of his horrible weapon by honing it upon hisbrawny forearm or decapitated in rapid succession a flock ofsheep which had been provided by the admirers of his fell but necessaryoffice. On a handsome mahogany table near him were neatly arranged thequartering knife, the various finely tempered disembowelling appliances(specially supplied by the worldfamous firm of cutlers, Messrs John Roundand Sons, Sheffield), a terra cotta saucepan for the reception of theduodenum, colon, blind intestine and appendix etc when successfullyextracted and two commodious milkjugs destined to receive the mostprecious blood of the most precious victim. The housesteward of theamalgamated cats and dogs home was in attendance to convey thesevessels when replenished to that beneficent institution. Quite anexcellent repast consisting of rashers and eggs, fried steak and onions,done to a nicety, delicious hot breakfast rolls and invigorating tea hadbeen considerately provided by the authorities for the consumptionof the central figure of the tragedy who was in capital spiritswhen prepared for death and evinced the keenest interest in theproceedings from beginning to end but he, with an abnegation rarein these our times, rose nobly to the occasion and expressed thedying wish (immediately acceded to) that the meal should bedivided in aliquot parts among the members of the sick and indigentroomkeepers association as a token of his regard and esteem. The NEC andNON PLUS ULTRA of emotion were reached when the blushing bride elect bursther way through the serried ranks of the bystanders and flung herself uponthe muscular bosom of him who was about to be launched into eternity forher sake. The hero folded her willowy form in a loving embrace murmuringfondly SHEILA, MY OWN. Encouraged by this use of her christian name shekissed passionately all the various suitable areas of his person which thedecencies of prison garb permitted her ardour to reach. She swore to himas they mingled the salt streams of their tears that she would evercherish his memory, that she would never forget her hero boy who went tohis death with a song on his lips as if he were but going to a hurlingmatch in Clonturk park. She brought back to his recollection the happydays of blissful childhood together on the banks of Anna Liffey when theyhad indulged in the innocent pastimes of the young and, oblivious of thedreadful present, they both laughed heartily, all the spectators,including the venerable pastor, joining in the general merriment. Thatmonster audience simply rocked with delight. But anon they were overcomewith grief and clasped their hands for the last time. A fresh torrent oftears burst from their lachrymal ducts and the vast concourse of people,touched to the inmost core, broke into heartrending sobs, not the leastaffected being the aged prebendary himself. Big strong men, officers ofthe peace and genial giants of the royal Irish constabulary,were making frank use of their handkerchiefs and it is safe to saythat there was not a dry eye in that record assemblage. A mostromantic incident occurred when a handsome young Oxford graduate,noted for his chivalry towards the fair sex, stepped forward and,presenting his visiting card, bankbook and genealogical tree,solicited the hand of the hapless young lady, requesting her toname the day, and was accepted on the spot. Every lady in theaudience was presented with a tasteful souvenir of the occasionin the shape of a skull and crossbones brooch, a timely and generousact which evoked a fresh outburst of emotion: and when the gallantyoung Oxonian (the bearer, by the way, of one of the most timehonourednames in Albions history) placed on the finger of his blushing FIANCEEan expensive engagement ring with emeralds set in the form of afourleaved shamrock the excitement knew no bounds. Nay, even the ster provostmarshal, lieutenantcolonel Tomkin-Maxwell ffrenchmullan Tomlinson,who presided on the sad occasion, he who had blown a considerable numberof sepoys from the cannonmouth without flinching, could not now restrainhis natural emotion. With his mailed gauntlet he brushed away a furtivetear and was overheard, by those privileged burghers who happened to bein his immediate ENTOURAGE, to murmur to himself in a faltering undertone:--God blimey if she aint a clinker, that there bleeding tart. Blimey itmakes me kind of bleeding cry, straight, it does, when I sees her cause Ithinks of my old mashtub whats waiting for me down Limehouse way.So then the citizen begins talking about the Irish language and thecorporation meeting and all to that and the shoneens that cant speaktheir own language and Joe chipping in because he stuck someone fora quid and Bloom putting in his old goo with his twopenny stump thathe cadged off of Joe and talking about the Gaelic league and theantitreating league and drink, the curse of Ireland. Antitreatingis about the size of it. Gob, hed let you pour all manner of drinkdown his throat till the Lord would call him before youd eversee the froth of his pint. And one night I went in with a fellowinto one of their musical evenings, song and dance about she couldget up on a truss of hay she could my Maureen Lay and there was a fellowwith a Ballyhooly blue ribbon badge spiffing out of him in Irish and a lotof colleen bawns going about with temperance beverages and selling medalsand oranges and lemonade and a few old dry buns, gob, flahoolaghentertainment, dont be talking. Ireland sober is Ireland free. And thenan old fellow starts blowing into his bagpipes and all the gougersshuffling their feet to the tune the old cow died of. And one or two skypilots having an eye around that there was no goings on with the females,hitting below the belt.So howandever, as I was saying, the old dog seeing the tin was emptystarts mousing around by Joe and me. Id train him by kindness, so Iwould, if he was my dog. Give him a rousing fine kick now and again whereit wouldnt blind him.--Afraid hell bite you? says the citizen, jeering.--No, says I. But he might take my leg for a lamppost.So he calls the old dog over.--Whats on you, Garry? says he.Then he starts hauling and mauling and talking to him in Irish andthe old towser growling, letting on to answer, like a duet in the opera.Such growling you never heard as they let off between them. Someone thathas nothing better to do ought to write a letter PRO BONO PUBLICO to thepapers about the muzzling order for a dog the like of that. Growling andgrousing and his eye all bloodshot from the drouth is in it and thehydrophobia dropping out of his jaws.All those who are interested in the spread of human culture amongthe lower animals (and their name is legion) should make a point of notmissing the really marvellous exhibition of cynanthropy given by thefamous old Irish red setter wolfdog formerly known by the SOBRIQUET ofGarryowen and recently rechristened by his large circle of friends andacquaintances Owen Garry. The exhibition, which is the result of years oftraining by kindness and a carefully thoughtout dietary system, comprises,among other achievements, the recitation of verse. Our greatest livingphonetic expert (wild horses shall not drag it from us!) has left no stoneunturned in his efforts to delucidate and compare the verse recited and hasfound it bears a STRIKING resemblance (the italics are ours) to the rannsof ancient Celtic bards. We are not speaking so much of those delightfullovesongs with which the writer who conceals his identity under thegraceful pseudonym of the Little Sweet Branch has familiarised thebookloving world but rather (as a contributor D. O. C. points out in aninteresting communication published by an evening contemporary) of theharsher and more personal note which is found in the satirical effusionsof the famous Raftery and of Donal MacConsidine to say nothing of a moremodern lyrist at present very much in the public eye. We subjoin aspecimen which has been rendered into English by an eminent scholarwhose name for the moment we are not at liberty to disclose thoughwe believe that our readers will find the topical allusion rathermore than an indication. The metrical system of the canine original,which recalls the intricate alliterative and isosyllabic rules ofthe Welsh englyn, is infinitely more complicated but we believe ourreaders will agree that the spirit has been well caught. Perhapsit should be added that the effect is greatly increased if Owensverse be spoken somewhat slowly and indistinctly in a tone suggestiveof suppressed rancour.    THE CURSE OF MY CURSES    SEVEN DAYS EVERY DAY    AND SEVEN DRY THURSDAYS    ON YOU, BARNEY KIERNAN,    HAS NO SUP OF WATER    TO COOL MY COURAGE,    AND MY GUTS RED ROARING    AFTER LOWRYS LIGHTS.So he told Terry to bring some water for the dog and, gob, you couldhear him lapping it up a mile off. And Joe asked him would he haveanother.--I will, says he, A CHARA, to show theres no ill feeling.Gob, hes not as green as hes cabbagelooking. Arsing around fromone pub to another, leaving it to your own honour, with old Giltraps dogand getting fed up by the ratepayers and corporators. Entertainment forman and beast. And says Joe:--Could you make a hole in another pint?--Could a swim duck? says I.--Same again, Terry, says Joe. Are you sure you wont have anything in theway of liquid refreshment? says he.--Thank you, no, says Bloom. As a matter of fact I just wanted to meetMartin Cunningham, dont you see, about this insurance of poor Dignams.Martin asked me to go to the house. You see, he, Dignam, I mean, didntserve any notice of the assignment on the company at the time andnominally under the act the mortgagee cant recover on the policy.--Holy Wars, says Joe, laughing, thats a good one if old Shylock islanded. So the wife comes out top dog, what?--Well, thats a point, says Bloom, for the wifes admirers.--Whose admirers? says Joe.--The wifes advisers, I mean, says Bloom.Then he starts all confused mucking it up about mortgagor under the actlike the lord chancellor giving it out on the bench and for the benefit ofthe wife and that a trust is created but on the other hand that Dignamowed Bridgeman the money and if now the wife or the widow contested themortgagees right till he near had the head of me addled with hismortgagor under the act. He was bloody safe he wasnt run in himself underthe act that time as a rogue and vagabond only he had a friend in court.Selling bazaar tickets or what do you call it royal Hungarian privilegedlottery. True as youre there. O, commend me to an israelite! Royal andprivileged Hungarian robbery.So Bob Doran comes lurching around asking Bloom to tell MrsDignam he was sorry for her trouble and he was very sorry about thefuneral and to tell her that he said and everyone who knew him said thatthere was never a truer, a finer than poor little Willy thats dead to tellher. Choking with bloody foolery. And shaking Blooms hand doing thetragic to tell her that. Shake hands, brother. Youre a rogue and Imanother.--Let me, said he, so far presume upon our acquaintance which, howeverslight it may appear if judged by the standard of mere time, is founded,as I hope and believe, on a sentiment of mutual esteem as to request ofyou this favour. But, should I have overstepped the limits of reservelet the sincerity of my feelings be the excuse for my boldness.--No, rejoined the other, I appreciate to the full the motives whichactuate your conduct and I shall discharge the office you entrustto me consoled by the reflection that, though the errand be one ofsorrow, this proof of your confidence sweetens in some measure thebitterness of the cup.--Then suffer me to take your hand, said he. The goodness of your heart, Ifeel sure, will dictate to you better than my inadequate words theexpressions which are most suitable to convey an emotion whosepoignancy, were I to give vent to my feelings, would deprive me even ofspeech.And off with him and out trying to walk straight. Boosed at fiveoclock. Night he was near being lagged only Paddy Leonard knew the bobby,A. Blind to the world up in a shebeen in Bride street after closingtime, fornicating with two shawls and a bully on guard, drinking porterout of teacups. And calling himself a Frenchy for the shawls, JosephManuo, and talking against the Catholic religion, and he serving mass inAdam and Eves when he was young with his eyes shut, who wrote the newtestament, and the old testament, and hugging and smugging. And the twoshawls killed with the laughing, picking his pockets, the bloodyfool and he spilling the porter all over the bed and the two shawlsscreeching laughing at one another. HOW IS YOUR TESTAMENT? HAVE YOUGOT AN OLD TESTAMENT? Only Paddy was passing there, I tell you what.Then see him of a Sunday with his little concubine of a wife, andshe wagging her tail up the aisle of the chapel with her patent bootson her, no less, and her violets, nice as pie, doing the little lady.Jack Mooneys sister. And the old prostitute of a motherprocuring rooms to street couples. Gob, Jack made him toe the line. Toldhim if he didnt patch up the pot, Jesus, hed kick the shite out of him.So Terry brought the three pints.--Here, says Joe, doing the honours. Here, citizen.--SLAN LEAT, says he.--Fortune, Joe, says I. Good health, citizen.Gob, he had his mouth half way down the tumbler already. Want asmall fortune to keep him in drinks.--Who is the long fellow running for the mayoralty, Alf? says Joe.--Friend of yours, says Alf.--Nannan? says Joe. The mimber?--I wont mention any names, says Alf.--I thought so, says Joe. I saw him up at that meeting now with WilliamField, M. P., the cattle traders.--Hairy Iopas, says the citizen, that exploded volcano, the darling of allcountries and the idol of his own.So Joe starts telling the citizen about the foot and mouth disease andthe cattle traders and taking action in the matter and the citizen sendingthem all to the rightabout and Bloom coming out with his sheepdip for thescab and a hoose drench for coughing calves and the guaranteed remedyfor timber tongue. Because he was up one time in a knackers yard.Walking about with his book and pencil heres my head and my heels arecoming till Joe Cuffe gave him the order of the boot for giving lip to agrazier. Mister Knowall. Teach your grandmother how to milk ducks.Pisser Burke was telling me in the hotel the wife used to be in rivers oftears some times with Mrs ODowd crying her eyes out with her eight inchesof fat all over her. Couldnt loosen her farting strings but old cods eyewas waltzing around her showing her how to do it. Whats your programmetoday? Ay. Humane methods. Because the poor animals suffer and expertssay and the best known remedy that doesnt cause pain to the animal andon the sore spot administer gently. Gob, hed have a soft hand under ahen.Ga Ga Gara. Klook Klook Klook. Black Liz is our hen. She lays eggsfor us. When she lays her egg she is so glad. Gara. Klook Klook Klook.Then comes good uncle Leo. He puts his hand under black Liz and takesher fresh egg. Ga ga ga ga Gara. Klook Klook Klook.--Anyhow, says Joe, Field and Nannetti are going over tonight to Londonto ask about it on the floor of the house of commons.--Are you sure, says Bloom, the councillor is going? I wanted to see him,as it happens.--Well, hes going off by the mailboat, says Joe, tonight.--Thats too bad, says Bloom. I wanted particularly. Perhaps only Mr Fieldis going. I couldnt phone. No. Youre sure?--Nannans going too, says Joe. The league told him to ask a questiontomorrow about the commissioner of police forbidding Irish games in thepark. What do you think of that, citizen? THE SLUAGH NA H-EIREANN.Mr Cowe Conacre (Multifarnham. Nat.): Arising out of the question of myhonourable friend, the member for Shillelagh, may I ask the righthonourable gentleman whether the government has issued orders that theseanimals shall be slaughtered though no medical evidence is forthcoming asto their pathological condition?Mr Allfours (Tamoshant. Con.): Honourable members are already inpossession of the evidence produced before a committee of the whole house.I feel I cannot usefully add anything to that. The answer to thehonourable members question is in the affirmative.Mr Orelli OReilly (Montenotte. Nat.): Have similar orders been issued forthe slaughter of human animals who dare to play Irish games in thePhoenix park?Mr Allfours: The answer is in the negative.Mr Cowe Conacre: Has the right honourable gentlemans famousMitchelstown telegram inspired the policy of gentlemen on the Treasurybench? (O! O!)Mr Allfours: I must have notice of that question.Mr Staylewit (Buncombe. Ind.): Dont hesitate to shoot.(Ironical opposition cheers.)The speaker: Order! Order!(The house rises. Cheers.)--Theres the man, says Joe, that made the Gaelic sports revival. There heis sitting there. The man that got away James Stephens. The champion ofall Ireland at putting the sixteen pound shot. What was your best throw,citizen?--NA BACLEIS , says the citizen, letting on to be modest. There was a timeI was as good as the next fellow anyhow.--Put it there, citizen, says Joe. You were and a bloody sight better.--Is that really a fact? says Alf.--Yes, says Bloom. Thats well known. Did you not know that?So off they started about Irish sports and shoneen games the like of lawntennis and about hurley and putting the stone and racy of the soil andbuilding up a nation once again and all to that. And of course Bloom hadto have his say too about if a fellow had a rowers heart violentexercise was bad. I declare to my antimacassar if you took up astraw from the bloody floor and if you said to Bloom: LOOK AT, BLOOM.DO YOU SEE THAT STRAW? THATS A STRAW. Declare to my aunt hed talkabout it for an hour so he would and talk steady.A most interesting discussion took place in the ancient hall of BRIANOCIARNAINS in SRAID NA BRETAINE BHEAG, under the auspices of SLUAGH NAH-EIREANN, on the revival of ancient Gaelic sports and the importance ofphysical culture, as understood in ancient Greece and ancient Rome andancient Ireland, for the development of the race. The venerable presidentof the noble order was in the chair and the attendance was of largedimensions. After an instructive discourse by the chairman, a magnificentoration eloquently and forcibly expressed, a most interesting andinstructive discussion of the usual high standard of excellenceensued as to the desirability of the revivability of the ancientgames and sports of our ancient Panceltic forefathers. Thewellknown and highly respected worker in the cause of our oldtongue, Mr Joseph MCarthy Hynes, made an eloquent appeal forthe resuscitation of the ancient Gaelic sports and pastimes,practised morning and evening by Finn MacCool, as calculated to revive thebest traditions of manly strength and prowess handed down to us fromancient ages. L. Bloom, who met with a mixed reception of applause andhisses, having espoused the negative the vocalist chairman brought thediscussion to a close, in response to repeated requests and heartyplaudits from all parts of a bumper house, by a remarkably noteworthyrendering of the immortal Thomas Osborne Davis evergreen verses (happilytoo familiar to need recalling here) A NATION ONCE AGAIN in the executionof which the veteran patriot champion may be said without fear ofcontradiction to have fairly excelled himself. The Irish Caruso-Garibaldiwas in superlative form and his stentorian notes were heard to thegreatest advantage in the timehonoured anthem sung as only our citizencan sing it. His superb highclass vocalism, which by its superqualitygreatly enhanced his already international reputation, was vociferouslyapplauded by the large audience among which were to be noticed manyprominent members of the clergy as well as representatives of the pressand the bar and the other learned professions. The proceedings thenterminated.Amongst the clergy present were the very rev. William Delany, S. J.,L. L. D.; the rt rev. Gerald Molloy, D. D.; the rev. P. J. Kavanagh,C. S. Sp.; the rev. T. Waters, C. C.; the rev. John M. Ivers, P. P.; therev. P. J. Cleary, O. S. F.; the rev. L. J. Hickey, O. P.; the very rev.Fr. Nicholas, O. S. F. C.; the very rev. B. Gorman, O. D. C.; the rev. T.Maher, S. J.; the very rev. James Murphy, S. J.; the rev. John Lavery,V. F.; the very rev. William Doherty, D. D.; the rev. Peter Fagan, O. M.;the rev. T. Brangan, O. S. A.; the rev. J. Flavin, C. C.; the rev. M. A.Hackett, C. C.; the rev. W. Hurley, C. C.; the rt rev. Mgr MManus,V. G.; the rev. B. R. Slattery, O. M. I.; the very rev. M. D. Scally, P.P.; the rev. F. T. Purcell, O. P.; the very rev. Timothy canon Gorman,P. P.; the rev. J. Flanagan, C. C. The laity included P. Fay, T. Quirke,etc., etc.--Talking about violent exercise, says Alf, were you at that Keogh-Bennettmatch?--No, says Joe.--I heard So and So made a cool hundred quid over it, says Alf.--Who? Blazes? says Joe.And says Bloom:--What I meant about tennis, for example, is the agility and training theeye.--Ay, Blazes, says Alf. He let out that Myler was on the beer to run upthe odds and he swatting all the time.--We know him, says the citizen. The traitors son. We know what putEnglish gold in his pocket.---True for you, says Joe.And Bloom cuts in again about lawn tennis and the circulation of theblood, asking Alf:--Now, dont you think, Bergan?--Myler dusted the floor with him, says Alf. Heenan and Sayers was only abloody fool to it. Handed him the father and mother of a beating. See thelittle kipper not up to his navel and the big fellow swiping. God, he gavehim one last puck in the wind, Queensberry rules and all, made him pukewhat he never ate.It was a historic and a hefty battle when Myler and Percy werescheduled to don the gloves for the purse of fifty sovereigns. Handicappedas he was by lack of poundage, Dublins pet lamb made up for it bysuperlative skill in ringcraft. The final bout of fireworks was agruelling for both champions. The welterweight sergeantmajor hadtapped some lively claret in the previous mixup during which Keoghhad been receivergeneral of rights and lefts, the artillerymanputting in some neat work on the pets nose, and Myler came onlooking groggy. The soldier got to business, leading off with apowerful left jab to which the Irish gladiator retaliated by shootingout a stiff one flush to the point of Bennetts jaw. The redcoatducked but the Dubliner lifted him with a left hook, the body punch beinga fine one. The men came to handigrips. Myler quickly became busy and gothis man under, the bout ending with the bulkier man on the ropes, Mylerpunishing him. The Englishman, whose right eye was nearly closed, tookhis corner where he was liberally drenched with water and when the bellwent came on gamey and brimful of pluck, confident of knocking out thefistic Eblanite in jigtime. It was a fight to a finish and the best manfor it. The two fought like tigers and excitement ran fever high. Thereferee twice cautioned Pucking Percy for holding but the pet was trickyand his footwork a treat to watch. After a brisk exchange of courtesiesduring which a smart upper cut of the military man brought blood freelyfrom his opponents mouth the lamb suddenly waded in all over his man andlanded a terrific left to Battling Bennetts stomach, flooring him flat.It was a knockout clean and clever. Amid tense expectation the Portobellobruiser was being counted out when Bennetts second Ole Pfotts Wettsteinthrew in the towel and the Santry boy was declared victor to the frenziedcheers of the public who broke through the ringropes and fairly mobbed himwith delight.--He knows which side his bread is buttered, says Alf. I hear hes runninga concert tour now up in the north.--He is, says Joe. Isnt he?--Who? says Bloom. Ah, yes. Thats quite true. Yes, a kind of summer tour,you see. Just a holiday.--Mrs B. is the bright particular star, isnt she? says Joe.--My wife? says Bloom. Shes singing, yes. I think it will be a successtoo.Hes an excellent man to organise. Excellent.Hoho begob says I to myself says I. That explains the milk in the cocoanutand absence of hair on the animals chest. Blazes doing the tootle on theflute. Concert tour. Dirty Dan the dodgers son off Island bridge thatsold the same horses twice over to the government to fight the Boers. OldWhatwhat. I called about the poor and water rate, Mr Boylan. You what?The water rate, Mr Boylan. You whatwhat? Thats the bucko thatllorganise her, take my tip. Twixt me and you Caddareesh.Pride of Calpes rocky mount, the ravenhaired daughter of Tweedy.There grew she to peerless beauty where loquat and almond scent the air.The gardens of Alameda knew her step: the garths of olives knew andbowed. The chaste spouse of Leopold is she: Marion of the bountifulbosoms.And lo, there entered one of the clan of the OMolloys, a comely heroof white face yet withal somewhat ruddy, his majestys counsel learned inthe law, and with him the prince and heir of the noble line of Lambert.--Hello, Ned.--Hello, Alf.--Hello, Jack.--Hello, Joe.--God save you, says the citizen.--Save you kindly, says J. J. Whatll it be, Ned?--Half one, says Ned.So J. J. ordered the drinks.--Were you round at the court? says Joe.--Yes, says J. J. Hell square that, Ned, says he.--Hope so, says Ned.Now what were those two at? J. J. getting him off the grand jury listand the other give him a leg over the stile. With his name in Stubbss.Playing cards, hobnobbing with flash toffs with a swank glass in theireye, adrinking fizz and he half smothered in writs and garnishee orders.Pawning his gold watch in Cummins of Francis street where no-one wouldknow him in the private office when I was there with Pisser releasing hisboots out of the pop. Whats your name, sir? Dunne, says he. Ay, and donesays I. Gob, hell come home by weeping cross one of those days, Imthinking.--Did you see that bloody lunatic Breen round there? says Alf. U. p: up.--Yes, says J. J. Looking for a private detective.--Ay, says Ned. And he wanted right go wrong to address the court onlyCorny Kelleher got round him telling him to get the handwriting examinedfirst.--Ten thousand pounds, says Alf, laughing. God, Id give anything to hearhim before a judge and jury.--Was it you did it, Alf? says Joe. The truth, the whole truth and nothingbut the truth, so help you Jimmy Johnson.--Me? says Alf. Dont cast your nasturtiums on my character.--Whatever statement you make, says Joe, will be taken down in evidenceagainst you.--Of course an action would lie, says J. J. It implies that he is notCOMPOS MENTIS. U. p: up.--COMPOS your eye! says Alf, laughing. Do you know that hes balmy?Look at his head. Do you know that some mornings he has to get his hat onwith a shoehorn.--Yes, says J. J., but the truth of a libel is no defence to an indictmentfor publishing it in the eyes of the law.--Ha ha, Alf, says Joe.--Still, says Bloom, on account of the poor woman, I mean his wife.--Pity about her, says the citizen. Or any other woman marries a half andhalf.--How half and half? says Bloom. Do you mean he ...--Half and half I mean, says the citizen. A fellow thats neither fish norflesh.--Nor good red herring, says Joe.--That whats I mean, says the citizen. A pishogue, if you know what thatis.Begob I saw there was trouble coming. And Bloom explaining he meant onaccount of it being cruel for the wife having to go round after theold stuttering fool. Cruelty to animals so it is to let that bloodypovertystricken Breen out on grass with his beard out tripping him,bringing down the rain. And she with her nose cockahoop after she marriedhim because a cousin of his old fellows was pewopener to the pope.Picture of him on the wall with his Smashall Sweeneys moustaches, thesignior Brini from Summerhill, the eyetallyano, papal Zouave to the HolyFather, has left the quay and gone to Moss street. And who was he, tellus? A nobody, two pair back and passages, at seven shillings a week, andhe covered with all kinds of breastplates bidding defiance to the world.--And moreover, says J. J., a postcard is publication. It was held to besufficient evidence of malice in the testcase Sadgrove v. Hole. In myopinion an action might lie.Six and eightpence, please. Who wants your opinion? Let us drinkour pints in peace. Gob, we wont be let even do that much itself.--Well, good health, Jack, says Ned.--Good health, Ned, says J. J.---There he is again, says Joe.--Where? says Alf.And begob there he was passing the door with his books under hisoxter and the wife beside him and Corny Kelleher with his wall eye lookingin as they went past, talking to him like a father, trying to sell him asecondhand coffin.--How did that Canada swindle case go off? says Joe.--Remanded, says J. J.One of the bottlenosed fraternity it was went by the name of JamesWought alias Saphiro alias Spark and Spiro, put an ad in the papers sayinghed give a passage to Canada for twenty bob. What? Do you see any greenin the white of my eye? Course it was a bloody barney. What? Swindledthem all, skivvies and badhachs from the county Meath, ay, and his ownkidney too. J. J. was telling us there was an ancient Hebrew Zaretsky orsomething weeping in the witnessbox with his hat on him, swearing by theholy Moses he was stuck for two quid.--Who tried the case? says Joe.--Recorder, says Ned.--Poor old sir Frederick, says Alf, you can cod him up to the two eyes.--Heart as big as a lion, says Ned. Tell him a tale of woe about arrearsof rent and a sick wife and a squad of kids and, faith, hell dissolve intears on the bench.--Ay, says Alf. Reuben J was bloody lucky he didnt clap him in the dockthe other day for suing poor little Gumley thats minding stones, for thecorporation there near Butt bridge.And he starts taking off the old recorder letting on to cry:--A most scandalous thing! This poor hardworking man! How manychildren? Ten, did you say?--Yes, your worship. And my wife has the typhoid.--And the wife with typhoid fever! Scandalous! Leave the courtimmediately, sir. No, sir, Ill make no order for payment. How dare you,sir, come up before me and ask me to make an order! A poor hardworkingindustrious man! I dismiss the case.And whereas on the sixteenth day of the month of the oxeyed goddess and inthe third week after the feastday of the Holy and Undivided Trinity,the daughter of the skies, the virgin moon being then in her firstquarter, it came to pass that those learned judges repaired them to thehalls of law. There master Courtenay, sitting in his own chamber,gave his rede and master Justice Andrews, sitting without a juryin the probate court, weighed well and pondered the claim of thefirst chargeant upon the property in the matter of the willpropounded and final testamentary disposition IN RE the real andpersonal estate of the late lamented Jacob Halliday, vintner, deceased,versus Livingstone, an infant, of unsound mind, and another. And to thesolemn court of Green street there came sir Frederick the Falconer. And hesat him there about the hour of five oclock to administer the law of thebrehons at the commission for all that and those parts to be holden inand for the county of the city of Dublin. And there sat with him the highsinhedrim of the twelve tribes of Iar, for every tribe one man, of thetribe of Patrick and of the tribe of Hugh and of the tribe of Owen and ofthe tribe of Conn and of the tribe of Oscar and of the tribe ofFergus and of the tribe of Finn and of the tribe of Dermot and ofthe tribe of Cormac and of the tribe of Kevin and of the tribe ofCaolte and of the tribe of Ossian, there being in all twelve goodmen and true. And he conjured them by Him who died on rood thatthey should well and truly try and true deliverance make in theissue joined between their sovereign lord the king and the prisoner atthe bar and true verdict give according to the evidence so help them Godand kiss the book. And they rose in their seats, those twelve of Iar, andthey swore by the name of Him Who is from everlasting that they would doHis rightwiseness. And straightway the minions of the law led forth fromtheir donjon keep one whom the sleuthhounds of justice had apprehended inconsequence of information received. And they shackled him hand and footand would take of him ne bail ne mainprise but preferred a charge againsthim for he was a malefactor.--Those are nice things, says the citizen, coming over here to Irelandfilling the country with bugs.So Bloom lets on he heard nothing and he starts talking with Joe, tellinghim he neednt trouble about that little matter till the first but if hewould just say a word to Mr Crawford. And so Joe swore high and holy bythis and by that hed do the devil and all.--Because, you see, says Bloom, for an advertisement you must haverepetition. Thats the whole secret.--Rely on me, says Joe.--Swindling the peasants, says the citizen, and the poor of Ireland. Wewant no more strangers in our house.--O, Im sure that will be all right, Hynes, says Bloom. Its just thatKeyes, you see.--Consider that done, says Joe.--Very kind of you, says Bloom.--The strangers, says the citizen. Our own fault. We let them come in. Webrought them in. The adulteress and her paramour brought the Saxonrobbers here.--Decree NISI, says J. J.And Bloom letting on to be awfully deeply interested in nothing, aspiders web in the corner behind the barrel, and the citizen scowlingafter him and the old dog at his feet looking up to know who to bite andwhen.--A dishonoured wife, says the citizen, thats whats the cause of all ourmisfortunes.--And here she is, says Alf, that was giggling over the POLICE GAZETTEwith Terry on the counter, in all her warpaint.--Give us a squint at her, says I.And what was it only one of the smutty yankee pictures Terryborrows off of Corny Kelleher. Secrets for enlarging your private parts.Misconduct of society belle. Norman W. Tupper, wealthy Chicagocontractor, finds pretty but faithless wife in lap of officer Taylor.Belle in her bloomers misconducting herself, and her fancyman feeling forher tickles and Norman W. Tupper bouncing in with his peashooter just intime to be late after she doing the trick of the loop with officer Taylor.--O jakers, Jenny, says Joe, how short your shirt is!--Theres hair, Joe, says I. Get a queer old tailend of corned beef off ofthat one, what?So anyhow in came John Wyse Nolan and Lenehan with him with aface on him as long as a late breakfast.--Well, says the citizen, whats the latest from the scene of action? Whatdid those tinkers in the city hall at their caucus meeting decide aboutthe Irish language?ONolan, clad in shining armour, low bending made obeisance to thepuissant and high and mighty chief of all Erin and did him to wit of thatwhich had befallen, how that the grave elders of the most obedient city,second of the realm, had met them in the tholsel, and there, after dueprayers to the gods who dwell in ether supernal, had taken solemn counselwhereby they might, if so be it might be, bring once more into honouramong mortal men the winged speech of the seadivided Gael.--Its on the march, says the citizen. To hell with the bloody brutalSassenachs and their PATOIS.So J. J. puts in a word, doing the toff about one story was good tillyou heard another and blinking facts and the Nelson policy, putting yourblind eye to the telescope and drawing up a bill of attainder to impeach anation, and Bloom trying to back him up moderation and botheration andtheir colonies and their civilisation.--Their syphilisation, you mean, says the citizen. To hell with them! Thecurse of a goodfornothing God light sideways on the bloody thickluggedsons of whores gets! No music and no art and no literature worthy of thename. Any civilisation they have they stole from us. Tonguetied sons ofbastards ghosts.--The European family, says J. J. ...--Theyre not European, says the citizen. I was in Europe with Kevin Eganof Paris. You wouldnt see a trace of them or their language anywhere inEurope except in a CABINET DAISANCE.And says John Wyse:--Full many a flower is born to blush unseen.And says Lenehan that knows a bit of the lingo:--CONSPUEZ LES ANGLAIS! PERFIDE ALBION!He said and then lifted he in his rude great brawny strengthy handsthe medher of dark strong foamy ale and, uttering his tribal slogan LAMHDEARG ABU, he drank to the undoing of his foes, a race of mighty valorousheroes, rulers of the waves, who sit on thrones of alabaster silent as thedeathless gods.--Whats up with you, says I to Lenehan. You look like a fellow that hadlost a bob and found a tanner.--Gold cup, says he.--Who won, Mr Lenehan? says Terry.--THROWAWAY, says he, at twenty to one. A rank outsider. And the restnowhere.--And Basss mare? says Terry.--Still running, says he. Were all in a cart. Boylan plunged two quid onmy tip SCEPTRE for himself and a lady friend.--I had half a crown myself, says Terry, on ZINFANDEL that Mr Flynn gaveme. Lord Howard de Waldens.--Twenty to one, says Lenehan. Such is life in an outhouse. THROWAWAY,says he. Takes the biscuit, and talking about bunions. Frailty, thy nameis SCEPTRE.So he went over to the biscuit tin Bob Doran left to see if there wasanything he could lift on the nod, the old cur after him backing his luckwith his mangy snout up. Old Mother Hubbard went to the cupboard.--Not there, my child, says he.--Keep your pecker up, says Joe. Shed have won the money only for theother dog.And J. J. and the citizen arguing about law and history with Bloomsticking in an odd word.--Some people, says Bloom, can see the mote in others eyes but they cantsee the beam in their own.--RAIMEIS, says the citizen. Theres no-one as blind as the fellow thatwont see, if you know what that means. Where are our missingtwenty millions of Irish should be here today instead of four,our lost tribes? And our potteries and textiles, the finest inthe whole world! And our wool that was sold in Rome in the timeof Juvenal and our flax and our damask from the looms of Antrimand our Limerick lace, our tanneries and our white flint glassdown there by Ballybough and our Huguenot poplin that we have sinceJacquard de Lyon and our woven silk and our Foxford tweeds and ivoryraised point from the Carmelite convent in New Ross, nothing like it inthe whole wide world. Where are the Greek merchants that came through thepillars of Hercules, the Gibraltar now grabbed by the foe of mankind, withgold and Tyrian purple to sell in Wexford at the fair of Carmen? ReadTacitus and Ptolemy, even Giraldus Cambrensis. Wine, peltries,Connemara marble, silver from Tipperary, second to none, our farfamedhorses even today, the Irish hobbies, with king Philip of Spain offeringto pay customs duties for the right to fish in our waters. What do theyellowjohns of Anglia owe us for our ruined trade and our ruined hearths?And the beds of the Barrow and Shannon they wont deepen with millionsof acres of marsh and bog to make us all die of consumption?--As treeless as Portugal well be soon, says John Wyse, or Heligolandwith its one tree if something is not done to reafforest the land.Larches, firs, all the trees of the conifer family are going fast. I wasreading a report of lord Castletowns ...--Save them, says the citizen, the giant ash of Galway and the chieftainelm of Kildare with a fortyfoot bole and an acre of foliage. Save thetrees of Ireland for the future men of Ireland on the fair hills ofEire, O.--Europe has its eyes on you, says Lenehan.The fashionable international world attended EN MASSE this afternoonat the wedding of the chevalier Jean Wyse de Neaulan, grand high chiefranger of the Irish National Foresters, with Miss Fir Conifer of PineValley. Lady Sylvester Elmshade, Mrs Barbara Lovebirch, Mrs Poll Ash,Mrs Holly Hazeleyes, Miss Daphne Bays, Miss Dorothy Canebrake, MrsClyde Twelvetrees, Mrs Rowan Greene, Mrs Helen Vinegadding, MissVirginia Creeper, Miss Gladys Beech, Miss Olive Garth, Miss BlancheMaple, Mrs Maud Mahogany, Miss Myra Myrtle, Miss PriscillaElderflower, Miss Bee Honeysuckle, Miss Grace Poplar, Miss O MimosaSan, Miss Rachel Cedarfrond, the Misses Lilian and Viola Lilac, MissTimidity Aspenall, Mrs Kitty Dewey-Mosse, Miss May Hawthorne, MrsGloriana Palme, Mrs Liana Forrest, Mrs Arabella Blackwood and MrsNorma Holyoake of Oakholme Regis graced the ceremony by theirpresence. The bride who was given away by her father, the MConifer ofthe Glands, looked exquisitely charming in a creation carried out in greenmercerised silk, moulded on an underslip of gloaming grey, sashed with ayoke of broad emerald and finished with a triple flounce of darkerhuedfringe, the scheme being relieved by bretelles and hip insertions of acornbronze. The maids of honour, Miss Larch Conifer and Miss Spruce Conifer,sisters of the bride, wore very becoming costumes in the same tone, adainty MOTIF of plume rose being worked into the pleats in a pinstripe andrepeated capriciously in the jadegreen toques in the form of heronfeathers of paletinted coral. Senhor Enrique Flor presided at theorgan with his wellknown ability and, in addition to the prescribednumbers of the nuptial mass, played a new and striking arrangementof WOODMAN, SPARE THAT TREE at the conclusion of the service. Onleaving the church of Saint Fiacre IN HORTO after the papalblessing the happy pair were subjected to a playful crossfireof hazelnuts, beechmast, bayleaves, catkins of willow, ivytod,hollyberries, mistletoe sprigs and quicken shoots. Mr and Mrs WyseConifer Neaulan will spend a quiet honeymoon in the Black Forest.--And our eyes are on Europe, says the citizen. We had our trade withSpain and the French and with the Flemings before those mongrels werepupped, Spanish ale in Galway, the winebark on the winedark waterway.--And will again, says Joe.--And with the help of the holy mother of God we will again, says thecitizen, clapping his thigh. our harbours that are empty will be fullagain, Queenstown, Kinsale, Galway, Blacksod Bay, Ventry in the kingdom ofKerry, Killybegs, the third largest harbour in the wide world with a fleetof masts of the Galway Lynches and the Cavan OReillys and theOKennedys of Dublin when the earl of Desmond could make a treaty withthe emperor Charles the Fifth himself. And will again, says he, when thefirst Irish battleship is seen breasting the waves with our own flag tothe fore, none of your Henry Tudors harps, no, the oldest flag afloat,the flag of the province of Desmond and Thomond, three crowns on a bluefield, the three sons of Milesius.And he took the last swig out of the pint. Moya. All wind and piss likea tanyard cat. Cows in Connacht have long horns. As much as his bloodylife is worth to go down and address his tall talk to the assembledmultitude in Shanagolden where he darent show his nose with the MollyMaguires looking for him to let daylight through him for grabbing theholding of an evicted tenant.--Hear, hear to that, says John Wyse. What will you have?--An imperial yeomanry, says Lenehan, to celebrate the occasion.--Half one, Terry, says John Wyse, and a hands up. Terry! Are you asleep?--Yes, sir, says Terry. Small whisky and bottle of Allsop. Right, sir. Hanging over the bloody paper with Alf looking for spicy bits insteadof attending to the general public. Picture of a butting match, trying tocrack their bloody skulls, one chap going for the other with his head downlike a bull at a gate. And another one: BLACK BEAST BURNED IN OMAHA, GA.A lot of Deadwood Dicks in slouch hats and they firing at a Sambo strungup in a tree with his tongue out and a bonfire under him. Gob, they oughtto drown him in the sea after and electrocute and crucify him to make sureof their job.--But what about the fighting navy, says Ned, that keeps our foes at bay?--Ill tell you what about it, says the citizen. Hell upon earth it is.Read the revelations thats going on in the papers about flogging on thetraining ships at Portsmouth. A fellow writes that calls himself DISGUSTEDONE.So he starts telling us about corporal punishment and about the crewof tars and officers and rearadmirals drawn up in cocked hats and theparson with his protestant bible to witness punishment and a young ladbrought out, howling for his ma, and they tie him down on the buttend of agun.--A rump and dozen, says the citizen, was what that old ruffian sir JohnBeresford called it but the modern Gods Englishman calls it caning on thebreech.And says John Wyse:--Tis a custom more honoured in the breach than in the observance.Then he was telling us the master at arms comes along with a longcane and he draws out and he flogs the bloody backside off of the poor ladtill he yells meila murder.--Thats your glorious British navy, says the citizen, that bosses theearth.The fellows that never will be slaves, with the only hereditary chamber onthe face of Gods earth and their land in the hands of a dozen gamehogsand cottonball barons. Thats the great empire they boast about of drudgesand whipped serfs.--On which the sun never rises, says Joe.--And the tragedy of it is, says the citizen, they believe it. Theunfortunate yahoos believe it.They believe in rod, the scourger almighty, creator of hell upon earth,and in Jacky Tar, the son of a gun, who was conceived of unholy boast,born of the fighting navy, suffered under rump and dozen, was scarified,flayed and curried, yelled like bloody hell, the third day he arose againfrom the bed, steered into haven, sitteth on his beamend till furtherorders whence he shall come to drudge for a living and be paid.--But, says Bloom, isnt discipline the same everywhere. I mean wouldntit be the same here if you put force against force?Didnt I tell you? As true as Im drinking this porter if he was at hislast gasp hed try to downface you that dying was living.--Well put force against force, says the citizen. We have our greaterIreland beyond the sea. They were driven out of house and home in theblack . Their mudcabins and their shielings by the roadside were laidlow by the batteringram and the TIMES rubbed its hands and told thewhitelivered Saxons there would soon be as few Irish in Ireland asredskins in America. Even the Grand Turk sent us his piastres. But theSassenach tried to starve the nation at home while the land was full ofcrops that the British hyenas bought and sold in Rio de Janeiro. Ay, theydrove out the peasants in hordes. Twenty thousand of them died in thecoffinships. But those that came to the land of the free remember the landof bondage. And they will come again and with a vengeance, no cravens, thesons of Granuaile, the champions of Kathleen ni Houlihan.--Perfectly true, says Bloom. But my point was ...--We are a long time waiting for that day, citizen, says Ned. Since thepoor old woman told us that the French were on the sea and landed atKillala.--Ay, says John Wyse. We fought for the royal Stuarts that reneged usagainst the Williamites and they betrayed us. Remember Limerick and thebroken treatystone. We gave our best blood to France and Spain, the wildgeese. Fontenoy, eh? And Sarsfield and ODonnell, duke of Tetuan inSpain, and Ulysses Browne of Camus that was fieldmarshal to MariaTeresa. But what did we ever get for it?--The French! says the citizen. Set of dancing masters! Do you know whatit is? They were never worth a roasted fart to Ireland. Arent they tryingto make an ENTENTE CORDIALE now at Tay Pays dinnerparty with perfidiousAlbion? Firebrands of Europe and they always were.--CONSPUEZ LES FRANCAIS, says Lenehan, nobbling his beer.--And as for the Prooshians and the Hanoverians, says Joe, havent we hadenough of those sausageeating bastards on the throne from George theelector down to the German lad and the flatulent old bitch thats dead?Jesus, I had to laugh at the way he came out with that about the old onewith the winkers on her, blind drunk in her royal palace every night ofGod, old Vic, with her jorum of mountain dew and her coachman cartingher up body and bones to roll into bed and she pulling him by the whiskersand singing him old bits of songs about EHREN ON THE RHINE and comewhere the boose is cheaper.--Well, says J. J. We have Edward the peacemaker now.--Tell that to a fool, says the citizen. Theres a bloody sight more poxthan pax about that boyo. Edward Guelph-Wettin!--And what do you think, says Joe, of the holy boys, the priests andbishops of Ireland doing up his room in Maynooth in His Satanic Majestysracing colours and sticking up pictures of all the horses his jockeysrode. The earl of Dublin, no less.--They ought to have stuck up all the women he rode himself, says little Alf.And says J. J.:--Considerations of space influenced their lordships decision.--Will you try another, citizen? says Joe.--Yes, sir, says he. I will.--You? says Joe.--Beholden to you, Joe, says I. May your shadow never grow less.--Repeat that dose, says Joe.Bloom was talking and talking with John Wyse and he quite excitedwith his dunducketymudcoloured mug on him and his old plumeyes rollingabout.--Persecution, says he, all the history of the world is full of it.Perpetuating national hatred among nations.--But do you know what a nation means? says John Wyse.--Yes, says Bloom.--What is it? says John Wyse.--A nation? says Bloom. A nation is the same people living in the sameplace.--By God, then, says Ned, laughing, if thats so Im a nation for Imliving in the same place for the past five years.So of course everyone had the laugh at Bloom and says he, trying tomuck out of it:--Or also living in different places.--That covers my case, says Joe.--What is your nation if I may ask? says the citizen.--Ireland, says Bloom. I was born here. Ireland.The citizen said nothing only cleared the spit out of his gullet and,gob, he spat a Red bank oyster out of him right in the corner.--After you with the push, Joe, says he, taking out his handkerchief toswab himself dry.--Here you are, citizen, says Joe. Take that in your right hand and repeatafter me the following words.The muchtreasured and intricately embroidered ancient Irishfacecloth attributed to Solomon of Droma and Manus Tomaltach ogMacDonogh, authors of the Book of Ballymote, was then carefullyproduced and called forth prolonged admiration. No need to dwell on thelegendary beauty of the cornerpieces, the acme of art, wherein one candistinctly discern each of the four evangelists in turn presenting to eachof the four masters his evangelical symbol, a bogoak sceptre, a NorthAmerican puma (a far nobler king of beasts than the British article, be itsaid in passing), a Kerry calf and a golden eagle from Carrantuohill. Thescenes depicted on the emunctory field, showing our ancient duns and rathsand cromlechs and grianauns and seats of learning and maledictive stones,are as wonderfully beautiful and the pigments as delicate as when theSligo illuminators gave free rein to their artistic fantasy long long agoin the time of the Barmecides. Glendalough, the lovely lakes of Killarney,the ruins of Clonmacnois, Cong Abbey, Glen Inagh and the Twelve Pins,Irelands Eye, the Green Hills of Tallaght, Croagh Patrick, the brewery ofMessrs Arthur Guinness, Son and Company (Limited), Lough Neaghs banks,the vale of Ovoca, Isoldes tower, the Mapas obelisk, Sir Patrick Dunshospital, Cape Clear, the glen of Aherlow, Lynchs castle, the Scotchhouse, Rathdown Union Workhouse at Loughlinstown, Tullamore jail,Castleconnel rapids, Kilballymacshonakill, the cross at Monasterboice,Jurys Hotel, S. Patricks Purgatory, the Salmon Leap, Maynooth collegerefectory, Curleys hole, the three birthplaces of the first duke ofWellington, the rock of Cashel, the bog of Allen, the Henry StreetWarehouse, Fingals Cave--all these moving scenes are still there for ustoday rendered more beautiful still by the waters of sorrow which havepassed over them and by the rich incrustations of time.--Show us over the drink, says I. Which is which?--Thats mine, says Joe, as the devil said to the dead policeman.--And I belong to a race too, says Bloom, that is hated and persecuted.Also now. This very moment. This very instant.Gob, he near burnt his fingers with the butt of his old cigar.--Robbed, says he. Plundered. Insulted. Persecuted. Taking what belongsto us by right. At this very moment, says he, putting up his fist, sold byauction in Morocco like slaves or cattle.--Are you talking about the new Jerusalem? says the citizen.--Im talking about injustice, says Bloom.--Right, says John Wyse. Stand up to it then with force like men.Thats an almanac picture for you. Mark for a softnosed bullet. Oldlardyface standing up to the business end of a gun. Gob, hed adorn asweepingbrush, so he would, if he only had a nurses apron on him. Andthen he collapses all of a sudden, twisting around all the opposite, aslimp as a wet rag.--But its no use, says he. Force, hatred, history, all that. Thats notlife for men and women, insult and hatred. And everybody knows that itsthe very opposite of that that is really life.--What? says Alf.--Love, says Bloom. I mean the opposite of hatred. I must go now, says heto John Wyse. Just round to the court a moment to see if Martin is there.If he comes just say Ill be back in a second. Just a moment.Whos hindering you? And off he pops like greased lightning.--A new apostle to the gentiles, says the citizen. Universal love.--Well, says John Wyse. Isnt that what were told. Love your neighbour.--That chap? says the citizen. Beggar my neighbour is his motto. Love,moya! Hes a nice pattern of a Romeo and Juliet.Love loves to love love. Nurse loves the new chemist. Constable Aloves Mary Kelly. Gerty MacDowell loves the boy that has the bicycle.M. B. loves a fair gentleman. Li Chi Han lovey up kissy Cha Pu Chow.Jumbo, the elephant, loves Alice, the elephant. Old Mr Verschoyle with theear trumpet loves old Mrs Verschoyle with the turnedin eye. The man in thebrown macintosh loves a lady who is dead. His Majesty the King loves HerMajesty the Queen. Mrs Norman W. Tupper loves officer Taylor. You lovea certain person. And this person loves that other person becauseeverybody loves somebody but God loves everybody.--Well, Joe, says I, your very good health and song. More power, citizen.--Hurrah, there, says Joe.--The blessing of God and Mary and Patrick on you, says the citizen.And he ups with his pint to wet his whistle.--We know those canters, says he, preaching and picking your pocket.What about sanctimonious Cromwell and his ironsides that put the womenand children of Drogheda to the sword with the bible text GOD IS LOVEpasted round the mouth of his cannon? The bible! Did you read that skit inthe UNITED IRISHMAN today about that Zulu chief thats visiting England?--Whats that? says Joe.So the citizen takes up one of his paraphernalia papers and he startsreading out:--A delegation of the chief cotton magnates of Manchester was presentedyesterday to His Majesty the Alaki of Abeakuta by Gold Stick in Waiting,Lord Walkup of Walkup on Eggs, to tender to His Majesty the heartfeltthanks of British traders for the facilities afforded them in hisdominions. The delegation partook of luncheon at the conclusionof which the dusky potentate, in the course of a happy speech,freely translated by the British chaplain, the reverend AnaniasPraisegod Barebones, tendered his best thanks to Massa Walkup andemphasised the cordial relations existing between Abeakuta and theBritish empire, stating that he treasured as one of his dearestpossessions an illuminated bible, the volume of the word of Godand the secret of Englands greatness, graciously presented to him bythe white chief woman, the great squaw Victoria, with a personaldedication from the august hand of the Royal Donor. The Alaki then drank alovingcup of firstshot usquebaugh to the toast BLACK AND WHITE from theskull of his immediate predecessor in the dynasty Kakachakachak,surnamed Forty Warts, after which he visited the chief factory ofCottonopolis and signed his mark in the visitors book, subsequentlyexecuting a charming old Abeakutic wardance, in the course of which heswallowed several knives and forks, amid hilarious applause from the girlhands.--Widow woman, says Ned. I wouldnt doubt her. Wonder did he put thatbible to the same use as I would.--Same only more so, says Lenehan. And thereafter in that fruitful landthe broadleaved mango flourished exceedingly.--Is that by Griffith? says John Wyse.--No, says the citizen. Its not signed Shanganagh. Its onlyinitialled: P.--And a very good initial too, says Joe.--Thats how its worked, says the citizen. Trade follows the flag.--Well, says J. J., if theyre any worse than those Belgians in the CongoFree State they must be bad. Did you read that report by a man whats thishis name is?--Casement, says the citizen. Hes an Irishman.--Yes, thats the man, says J. J. Raping the women and girls and floggingthe natives on the belly to squeeze all the red rubber they can out ofthem.--I know where hes gone, says Lenehan, cracking his fingers.--Who? says I.--Bloom, says he. The courthouse is a blind. He had a few bob onTHROWAWAY and hes gone to gather in the shekels.--Is it that whiteeyed kaffir? says the citizen, that never backed a horsein anger in his life?--Thats where hes gone, says Lenehan. I met Bantam Lyons going to backthat horse only I put him off it and he told me Bloom gave him the tip.Bet you what you like he has a hundred shillings to five on. Hes the onlyman in Dublin has it. A dark horse.--Hes a bloody dark horse himself, says Joe.--Mind, Joe, says I. Show us the entrance out.--There you are, says Terry.Goodbye Ireland Im going to Gort. So I just went round the back ofthe yard to pumpship and begob (hundred shillings to five) while I wasletting off my (THROWAWAY twenty to) letting off my load gob says I tomyself I knew he was uneasy in his (two pints off of Joe and one inSlatterys off) in his mind to get off the mark to (hundred shillings isfive quid) and when they were in the (dark horse) pisser Burkewas telling me card party and letting on the child was sick (gob, musthave done about a gallon) flabbyarse of a wife speaking down the tubeSHES BETTER or SHES (ow!) all a plan so he could vamoose with thepool if he won or (Jesus, full up I was) trading without a licence (ow!)Ireland my nation says he (hoik! phthook!) never be up to thosebloody (theres the last of it) Jerusalem (ah!) cuckoos.So anyhow when I got back they were at it dingdong, John Wysesaying it was Bloom gave the ideas for Sinn Fein to Griffith to put in hispaper all kinds of jerrymandering, packed juries and swindling the taxesoff of the government and appointing consuls all over the world to walkabout selling Irish industries. Robbing Peter to pay Paul. Gob, that putsthe bloody kybosh on it if old sloppy eyes is mucking up the show. Give usa bloody chance. God save Ireland from the likes of that bloodymouseabout. Mr Bloom with his argol bargol. And his old fellow before himperpetrating frauds, old Methusalem Bloom, the robbing bagman, thatpoisoned himself with the prussic acid after he swamping the country withhis baubles and his penny diamonds. Loans by post on easy terms. Anyamount of money advanced on note of hand. Distance no object. No security.Gob, hes like Lanty MacHales goat thatd go a piece of the road withevery one.--Well, its a fact, says John Wyse. And theres the man now thatll tellyou all about it, Martin Cunningham.Sure enough the castle car drove up with Martin on it and Jack Powerwith him and a fellow named Crofter or Crofton, pensioner out of thecollector generals, an orangeman Blackburn does have on the registrationand he drawing his pay or Crawford gallivanting around the country at thekings expense.Our travellers reached the rustic hostelry and alighted from theirpalfreys.--Ho, varlet! cried he, who by his mien seemed the leader of the party.Saucy knave! To us!So saying he knocked loudly with his swordhilt upon the open lattice.Mine host came forth at the summons, girding him with his tabard.--Give you good den, my masters, said he with an obsequious bow.--Bestir thyself, sirrah! cried he who had knocked. Look to our steeds.And for ourselves give us of your best for ifaith we need it.--Lackaday, good masters, said the host, my poor house has but a barelarder. I know not what to offer your lordships.--How now, fellow? cried the second of the party, a man of pleasantcountenance, So servest thou the kings messengers, master Taptun?An instantaneous change overspread the landlords visage.--Cry you mercy, gentlemen, he said humbly. An you be the kingsmessengers (God shield His Majesty!) you shall not want for aught. Thekings friends (God bless His Majesty!) shall not go afasting in my houseI warrant me.--Then about! cried the traveller who had not spoken, a lusty trenchermanby his aspect. Hast aught to give us?Mine host bowed again as he made answer:--What say you, good masters, to a squab pigeon pasty, some collops ofvenison, a saddle of veal, widgeon with crisp hogs bacon, a boars headwith pistachios, a bason of jolly custard, a medlar tansy and a flagon ofold Rhenish?--Gadzooks! cried the last speaker. That likes me well. Pistachios!--Aha! cried he of the pleasant countenance. A poor house and a barelarder, quotha! Tis a merry rogue.So in comes Martin asking where was Bloom.--Where is he? says Lenehan. Defrauding widows and orphans.--Isnt that a fact, says John Wyse, what I was telling the citizen aboutBloom and the Sinn Fein?--Thats so, says Martin. Or so they allege.--Who made those allegations? says Alf.--I, says Joe. Im the alligator.--And after all, says John Wyse, why cant a jew love his country like thenext fellow?--Why not? says J. J., when hes quite sure which country it is.--Is he a jew or a gentile or a holy Roman or a swaddler or what the hellis he? says Ned. Or who is he? No offence, Crofton.--Who is Junius? says J. J.--We dont want him, says Crofter the Orangeman or presbyterian.--Hes a perverted jew, says Martin, from a place in Hungary and it was hedrew up all the plans according to the Hungarian system. We know that inthe castle.--Isnt he a cousin of Bloom the dentist? says Jack Power.--Not at all, says Martin. Only namesakes. His name was Virag, thefathers name that poisoned himself. He changed it by deedpoll, the fatherdid.--Thats the new Messiah for Ireland! says the citizen. Island of saintsand sages!--Well, theyre still waiting for their redeemer, says Martin. For thatmatter so are we.--Yes, says J. J., and every male thats born they think it may be theirMessiah. And every jew is in a tall state of excitement, I believe, tillhe knows if hes a father or a mother.--Expecting every moment will be his next, says Lenehan.--O, by God, says Ned, you should have seen Bloom before that son of histhat died was born. I met him one day in the south city markets buying atin of Neaves food six weeks before the wife was delivered.--EN VENTRE SA MERE, says J. J.--Do you call that a man? says the citizen.--I wonder did he ever put it out of sight, says Joe.--Well, there were two children born anyhow, says Jack Power.--And who does he suspect? says the citizen.Gob, theres many a true word spoken in jest. One of those mixedmiddlings he is. Lying up in the hotel Pisser was telling me once a monthwith headache like a totty with her courses. Do you know what Im tellingyou? Itd be an act of God to take a hold of a fellow the like of that andthrow him in the bloody sea. Justifiable homicide, so it would. Thensloping off with his five quid without putting up a pint of stuff like aman. Give us your blessing. Not as much as would blind your eye.--Charity to the neighbour, says Martin. But where is he? We cant wait.--A wolf in sheeps clothing, says the citizen. Thats what he is. Viragfrom Hungary! Ahasuerus I call him. Cursed by God.--Have you time for a brief libation, Martin? says Ned.--Only one, says Martin. We must be quick. J. J. and S.--You, Jack? Crofton? Three half ones, Terry.--Saint Patrick would want to land again at Ballykinlar and convert us,says the citizen, after allowing things like that to contaminate ourshores.--Well, says Martin, rapping for his glass. God bless all here is myprayer.--Amen, says the citizen.--And Im sure He will, says Joe.And at the sound of the sacring bell, headed by a crucifer with acolytes,thurifers, boatbearers, readers, ostiarii, deacons and subdeacons,the blessed company drew nigh of mitred abbots and priors and guardiansand monks and friars: the monks of Benedict of Spoleto, Carthusians andCamaldolesi, Cistercians and Olivetans, Oratorians and Vallombrosans,and the friars of Augustine, Brigittines, Premonstratensians, Servi,Trinitarians, and the children of Peter Nolasco: and therewith from Carmelmount the children of Elijah prophet led by Albert bishop and by Teresa ofAvila, calced and other: and friars, brown and grey, sons of poor Francis,capuchins, cordeliers, minimes and observants and the daughters of Clara:and the sons of Dominic, the friars preachers, and the sons of Vincent:and the monks of S. Wolstan: and Ignatius his children: and theconfraternity of the christian brothers led by the reverend brotherEdmund Ignatius Rice. And after came all saints and martyrs,virgins and confessors: S. Cyr and S. Isidore Arator and S. James theLess and S. Phocas of Sinope and S. Julian Hospitator and S. Felixde Cantalice and S. Simon Stylites and S. Stephen Protomartyr andS. John of God and S. Ferreol and S. Leugarde and S. Theodotus and S.Vulmar and S. Richard and S. Vincent de Paul and S. Martin of Todiand S. Martin of Tours and S. Alfred and S. Joseph and S.Denis and S. Cornelius and S. Leopold and S. Bernard and S. Terence andS. Edward and S. Owen Caniculus and S. Anonymous and S. Eponymousand S. Pseudonymous and S. Homonymous and S. Paronymous and S.Synonymous and S. Laurence OToole and S. James of Dingle andCompostella and S. Columcille and S. Columba and S. Celestine and S.Colman and S. Kevin and S. Brendan and S. Frigidian and S. Senan and S.Fachtna and S. Columbanus and S. Gall and S. Fursey and S. Fintan and S.Fiacre and S. John Nepomuc and S. Thomas Aquinas and S. Ives ofBrittany and S. Michan and S. Herman-Joseph and the three patrons ofholy youth S. Aloysius Gonzaga and S. Stanislaus Kostka and S. JohnBerchmans and the saints Gervasius, Servasius and Bonifacius and S. Brideand S. Kieran and S. Canice of Kilkenny and S. Jarlath of Tuam and S.Finbarr and S. Pappin of Ballymun and Brother Aloysius Pacificus andBrother Louis Bellicosus and the saints Rose of Lima and of Viterbo and S.Martha of Bethany and S. Mary of Egypt and S. Lucy and S. Brigid and S.Attracta and S. Dympna and S. Ita and S. Marion Calpensis and theBlessed Sister Teresa of the Child Jesus and S. Barbara and S. Scholasticaand S. Ursula with eleven thousand virgins. And all came with nimbi andaureoles and gloriae, bearing palms and harps and swords and olivecrowns, in robes whereon were woven the blessed symbols of theirefficacies, inkhorns, arrows, loaves, cruses, fetters, axes, trees,bridges, babes in a bathtub, shells, wallets, shears, keys, dragons,lilies, buckshot, beards, hogs, lamps, bellows, beehives, soupladles,stars, snakes, anvils, boxes of vaseline, bells, crutches, forceps,stags horns, watertight boots, hawks, millstones, eyes on a dish, waxcandles, aspergills, unicorns. And as they wended their way by NelsonsPillar, Henry street, Mary street, Capel street, Little Britain streetchanting the introit in EPIPHANIA DOMINI which beginneth SURGE,ILLUMINARE and thereafter most sweetly the gradual OMNES which saithDE SABA VENIENT they did divers wonders such as casting out devils,raising the dead to life, multiplying fishes, healing the halt and theblind, discovering various articles which had been mislaid, interpretingand fulfilling the scriptures, blessing and prophesying. And last, beneatha canopy of cloth of gold came the reverend Father OFlynn attended byMalachi and Patrick. And when the good fathers had reached the appointedplace, the house of Bernard Kiernan and Co, limited, ,  and  littleBritain street, wholesale grocers, wine and brandy shippers, licensed fothe sale of beer, wine and spirits for consumption on the premises, thecelebrant blessed the house and censed the mullioned windows and thegroynes and the vaults and the arrises and the capitals and the pedimentsand the cornices and the engrailed arches and the spires and the cupolasand sprinkled the lintels thereof with blessed water and prayed that Godmight bless that house as he had blessed the house of Abraham and Isaacand Jacob and make the angels of His light to inhabit therein. Andentering he blessed the viands and the beverages and the company of allthe blessed answered his prayers.--ADIUTORIUM NOSTRUM IN NOMINE DOMINI.--QUI FECIT COELUM ET TERRAM.--DOMINUS VOBISCUM.--ET CUM SPIRITU TUO.And he laid his hands upon that he blessed and gave thanks and heprayed and they all with him prayed:--DEUS, CUIUS VERBO SANCTIFICANTUR OMNIA, BENEDICTIONEM TUAM EFFUNDE SUPERCREATURAS ISTAS: ET PRAESTA UT QUISQUIS EIS SECUNDUM LEGEM ET VOLUNTATEMTUAM CUM GRATIARUM ACTIONE USUS FUERIT PER INVOCATIONEM SANCTISSIMINOMINIS TUI CORPORIS SANITATEM ET ANIMAE TUTELAM TE AUCTORE PERCIPIAT PERCHRISTUM DOMINUM NOSTRUM.--And so say all of us, says Jack.--Thousand a year, Lambert, says Crofton or Crawford.--Right, says Ned, taking up his John Jameson. And butter for fish.I was just looking around to see who the happy thought would strikewhen be damned but in he comes again letting on to be in a hell of ahurry.--I was just round at the courthouse, says he, looking for you. I hope Imnot ...--No, says Martin, were ready.Courthouse my eye and your pockets hanging down with gold and silver.Mean bloody scut. Stand us a drink itself. Devil a sweet fear! Theresa jew for you! All for number one. Cute as a shithouse rat. Hundred tofive.--Dont tell anyone, says the citizen,--Beg your pardon, says he.--Come on boys, says Martin, seeing it was looking blue. Come along now.--Dont tell anyone, says the citizen, letting a bawl out of him. Its asecret.And the bloody dog woke up and let a growl.--Bye bye all, says Martin.And he got them out as quick as he could, Jack Power and Crofton orwhatever you call him and him in the middle of them letting on to be allat sea and up with them on the bloody jaunting car.---Off with you, saysMartin to the jarvey.The milkwhite dolphin tossed his mane and, rising in the golden poopthe helmsman spread the bellying sail upon the wind and stood off forwardwith all sail set, the spinnaker to larboard. A many comely nymphs drewnigh to starboard and to larboard and, clinging to the sides of the noblebark, they linked their shining forms as doth the cunning wheelwright whenhe fashions about the heart of his wheel the equidistant rays whereof eachone is sister to another and he binds them all with an outer ring andgiveth speed to the feet of men whenas they ride to a hosting or contendfor the smile of ladies fair. Even so did they come and set them, thosewilling nymphs, the undying sisters. And they laughed, sporting in acircle of their foam: and the bark clave the waves.But begob I was just lowering the heel of the pint when I saw thecitizen getting up to waddle to the door, puffing and blowing with thedropsy, and he cursing the curse of Cromwell on him, bell, book and candlein Irish, spitting and spatting out of him and Joe and little Alf roundhim like a leprechaun trying to peacify him.--Let me alone, says he.And begob he got as far as the door and they holding him and hebawls out of him:--Three cheers for Israel!Arrah, sit down on the parliamentary side of your arse for Christsake and dont be making a public exhibition of yourself. Jesus, theresalways some bloody clown or other kicking up a bloody murder aboutbloody nothing. Gob, itd turn the porter sour in your guts, so it would.And all the ragamuffins and sluts of the nation round the door and Martintelling the jarvey to drive ahead and the citizen bawling and Alf andJoe at him to whisht and he on his high horse about the jews and theloafers calling for a speech and Jack Power trying to get him to sit downon the car and hold his bloody jaw and a loafer with a patch over his eyestarts singing IF THE MAN IN THE MOON WAS A JEW, JEW, JEW and a slutshouts out of her:--Eh, mister! Your fly is open, mister!And says he:--Mendelssohn was a jew and Karl Marx and Mercadante and Spinoza.And the Saviour was a jew and his father was a jew. Your God.--He had no father, says Martin. Thatll do now. Drive ahead.--Whose God? says the citizen.--Well, his uncle was a jew, says he. Your God was a jew. Christ was a jewlike me.Gob, the citizen made a plunge back into the shop.--By Jesus, says he, Ill brain that bloody jewman for using the holyname.By Jesus, Ill crucify him so I will. Give us that biscuitbox here.--Stop! Stop! says Joe.A large and appreciative gathering of friends and acquaintances fromthe metropolis and greater Dublin assembled in their thousands to bidfarewell to Nagyasagos uram Lipoti Virag, late of Messrs AlexanderThoms, printers to His Majesty, on the occasion of his departure for thedistant clime of Szazharminczbrojugulyas-Dugulas (Meadow ofMurmuring Waters). The ceremony which went off with great ECLAT wascharacterised by the most affecting cordiality. An illuminated scroll ofancient Irish vellum, the work of Irish artists, was presented to thedistinguished phenomenologist on behalf of a large section of thecommunity and was accompanied by the gift of a silver casket, tastefullyexecuted in the style of ancient Celtic ornament, a work which reflectsevery credit on the makers, Messrs Jacob AGUS Jacob. The departing guestwas the recipient of a hearty ovation, many of those who were presentbeing visibly moved when the select orchestra of Irish pipes struck up thewellknown strains of COME BACK TO ERIN, followed immediately by RAKOCZSYSMARCH. Tarbarrels and bonfires were lighted along the coastline of the fourseas on the summits of the Hill of Howth, Three Rock Mountain, Sugarloaf,Bray Head, the mountains of Mourne, the Galtees, the Ox and Donegal andSperrin peaks, the Nagles and the Bograghs, the Connemara hills, the reeksof M Gillicuddy, Slieve Aughty, Slieve Bernagh and Slieve Bloom. Amidcheers that rent the welkin, responded to by answering cheers from a bigmuster of henchmen on the distant Cambrian and Caledonian hills, themastodontic pleasureship slowly moved away saluted by a final floraltribute from the representatives of the fair sex who were present in largenumbers while, as it proceeded down the river, escorted by a flotilla ofbarges, the flags of the Ballast office and Custom House were dipped insalute as were also those of the electrical power station at thePigeonhouse and the Poolbeg Light. VISSZONTLATASRA, KEDVES BARATON!VISSZONTLATASRA! Gone but not forgotten.Gob, the devil wouldnt stop him till he got hold of the bloody tinanyhow and out with him and little Alf hanging on to his elbow and heshouting like a stuck pig, as good as any bloody play in the Queens royaltheatre:--Where is he till I murder him?And Ned and J. J. paralysed with the laughing.--Bloody wars, says I, Ill be in for the last gospel.But as luck would have it the jarvey got the nags head round theother way and off with him.--Hold on, citizen, says Joe. Stop!Begob he drew his hand and made a swipe and let fly. Mercy of God the sunwas in his eyes or hed have left him for dead. Gob, he near sent itinto the county Longford. The bloody nag took fright and the old mongrelafter the car like bloody hell and all the populace shouting and laughingand the old tinbox clattering along the street.The catastrophe was terrific and instantaneous in its effect. Theobservatory of Dunsink registered in all eleven shocks, all of the fifthgrade of Mercallis scale, and there is no record extant of a similarseismic disturbance in our island since the earthquake of , theyear of the rebellion of Silken Thomas. The epicentre appears to havebeen that part of the metropolis which constitutes the Inns Quayward and parish of Saint Michan covering a surface of fortyone acres,two roods and one square pole or perch. All the lordly residences inthe vicinity of the palace of justice were demolished and that nobleedifice itself, in which at the time of the catastrophe importantlegal debates were in progress, is literally a mass of ruins beneathwhich it is to be feared all the occupants have been buried alive.From the reports of eyewitnesses it transpires that the seismic waveswere accompanied by a violent atmospheric perturbation of cycloniccharacter. An article of headgear since ascertained to belong to the muchrespected clerk of the crown and peace Mr George Fottrell and a silkumbrella with gold handle with the engraved initials, crest, coat of armsand house number of the erudite and worshipful chairman of quartersessions sir Frederick Falkiner, recorder of Dublin, have been discoveredby search parties in remote parts of the island respectively, the formeron the third basaltic ridge of the giants causeway, the latter embeddedto the extent of one foot three inches in the sandy beach of Holeopenbay near the old head of Kinsale. Other eyewitnesses depose that theyobserved an incandescent object of enormous proportions hurtling throughthe atmosphere at a terrifying velocity in a trajectory directedsouthwest by west. Messages of condolence and sympathy are beinghourly received from all parts of the different continents and thesovereign pontiff has been graciously pleased to decree that aspecial MISSA PRO DEFUNCTIS shall be celebrated simultaneously bythe ordinaries of each and every cathedral church of all the episcopaldioceses subject to the spiritual authority of the Holy See in suffrage ofthe souls of those faithful departed who have been so unexpectedly calledaway from our midst. The work of salvage, removal of DEBRIS, human remainsetc has been entrusted to Messrs Michael Meade and Son,  GreatBrunswick street, and Messrs T. and C. Martin, , ,  and  NorthWall, assisted by the men and officers of the Duke of Cornwalls lightinfantry under the general supervision of H. R. H., rear admiral, theright honourable sir Hercules Hannibal Habeas Corpus Anderson, K. G.,K. P., K. T., P. C., K. C. B., M. P, J. P., M. B., D. S. O., S. O. D.,M. F. H., M. R. I. A., B. L., Mus. Doc., P. L. G., F. T. C. D.,F. R. U. I., F. R. C. P. I. and F. R. C. S. I.You never saw the like of it in all your born puff. Gob, if he got thatlottery ticket on the side of his poll hed remember the gold cup,he would so, but begob the citizen would have been lagged for assaultand battery and Joe for aiding and abetting. The jarvey saved his lifeby furious driving as sure as God made Moses. What? O, Jesus, he did.And he let a volley of oaths after him.--Did I kill him, says he, or what?And he shouting to the bloody dog:--After him, Garry! After him, boy!And the last we saw was the bloody car rounding the corner and oldsheepsface on it gesticulating and the bloody mongrel after it with hislugs back for all he was bloody well worth to tear him limb from limb.Hundred to five! Jesus, he took the value of it out of him, I promise you.When, lo, there came about them all a great brightness and theybeheld the chariot wherein He stood ascend to heaven. And they beheldHim in the chariot, clothed upon in the glory of the brightness, havingraiment as of the sun, fair as the moon and terrible that for awe theydurst not look upon Him. And there came a voice out of heaven, calling:ELIJAH! ELIJAH! And He answered with a main cry: ABBA! ADONAI! And theybeheld Him even Him, ben Bloom Elijah, amid clouds of angels ascendto the glory of the brightness at an angle of fortyfive degrees overDonohoes in Little Green street like a shot off a shovel.    * * * * * * *The summer evening had begun to fold the world in its mysteriousembrace. Far away in the west the sun was setting and the last glow of alltoo fleeting day lingered lovingly on sea and strand, on the proudpromontory of dear old Howth guarding as ever the waters of the bay, onthe weedgrown rocks along Sandymount shore and, last but not least, on thequiet church whence there streamed forth at times upon the stillness thevoice of prayer to her who is in her pure radiance a beacon ever to thestormtossed heart of man, Mary, star of the sea.The three girl friends were seated on the rocks, enjoying the eveningscene and the air which was fresh but not too chilly. Many a time and oftwere they wont to come there to that favourite nook to have a cosy chatbeside the sparkling waves and discuss matters feminine, Cissy Caffrey andEdy Boardman with the baby in the pushcar and Tommy and JackyCaffrey, two little curlyheaded boys, dressed in sailor suits with caps tomatch and the name H.M.S. Belleisle printed on both. For Tommy andJacky Caffrey were twins, scarce four years old and very noisy and spoiledtwins sometimes but for all that darling little fellows with bright merryfaces and endearing ways about them. They were dabbling in the sand withtheir spades and buckets, building castles as children do, or playing withtheir big coloured ball, happy as the day was long. And Edy Boardman wasrocking the chubby baby to and fro in the pushcar while that younggentleman fairly chuckled with delight. He was but eleven months and ninedays old and, though still a tiny toddler, was just beginning to lisp hisfirst babyish words. Cissy Caffrey bent over to him to tease his fatlittle plucks and the dainty dimple in his chin.--Now, baby, Cissy Caffrey said. Say out big, big. I want a drink ofwater.And baby prattled after her:--A jink a jink a jawbo.Cissy Caffrey cuddled the wee chap for she was awfully fond of children,so patient with little sufferers and Tommy Caffrey could never be got totake his castor oil unless it was Cissy Caffrey that held his nose andpromised him the scatty heel of the loaf or brown bread with golden syrupon. What a persuasive power that girl had! But to be sure baby Boardmanwas as good as gold, a perfect little dote in his new fancy bib. None ofyour spoilt beauties, Flora MacFlimsy sort, was Cissy Caffrey.A truerhearted lass never drew the breath of life, always with a laugh inher gipsylike eyes and a frolicsome word on her cherryripe red lips, agirl lovable in the extreme. And Edy Boardman laughed too at the quaintlanguage of little brother.But just then there was a slight altercation between Master Tommyand Master Jacky. Boys will be boys and our two twins were no exceptionto this golden rule. The apple of discord was a certain castle of sandwhich Master Jacky had built and Master Tommy would have it right go wrongthat it was to be architecturally improved by a frontdoor like theMartello tower had. But if Master Tommy was headstrong Master Jacky wasselfwilled too and, true to the maxim that every little Irishmans houseis his castle, he fell upon his hated rival and to such purpose that thewouldbe assailant came to grief and (alas to relate!) the coveted castletoo. Needless to say the cries of discomfited Master Tommy drew theattention of the girl friends.--Come here, Tommy, his sister called imperatively. At once! And you,Jacky, for shame to throw poor Tommy in the dirty sand. Wait till I catchyou for that.His eyes misty with unshed tears Master Tommy came at her call fortheir big sisters word was law with the twins. And in a sad plight he wastoo after his misadventure. His little man-o-war top and unmentionableswere full of sand but Cissy was a past mistress in the art of smoothingover lifes tiny troubles and very quickly not one speck of sand wasto be seen on his smart little suit. Still the blue eyes were glisteningwith hot tears that would well up so she kissed away the hurtness andshook her hand at Master Jacky the culprit and said if she was nearhim she wouldnt be far from him, her eyes dancing in admonition.--Nasty bold Jacky! she cried.She put an arm round the little mariner and coaxed winningly:--Whats your name? Butter and cream?--Tell us who is your sweetheart, spoke Edy Boardman. Is Cissy yoursweetheart?--Nao, tearful Tommy said.--Is Edy Boardman your sweetheart? Cissy queried.--Nao, Tommy said.--I know, Edy Boardman said none too amiably with an arch glance fromher shortsighted eyes. I know who is Tommys sweetheart. Gerty isTommys sweetheart.--Nao, Tommy said on the verge of tears.Cissys quick motherwit guessed what was amiss and she whisperedto Edy Boardman to take him there behind the pushcar where thegentleman couldnt see and to mind he didnt wet his new tan shoes.But who was Gerty?Gerty MacDowell who was seated near her companions, lost inthought, gazing far away into the distance was, in very truth, as fair aspecimen of winsome Irish girlhood as one could wish to see. She waspronounced beautiful by all who knew her though, as folks often said, shewas more a Giltrap than a MacDowell. Her figure was slight and graceful,inclining even to fragility but those iron jelloids she had been taking oflate had done her a world of good much better than the Widow Welchsfemale pills and she was much better of those discharges she used to getand that tired feeling. The waxen pallor of her face was almost spiritualin its ivorylike purity though her rosebud mouth was a genuine Cupidsbow, Greekly perfect. Her hands were of finely veined alabasterwith tapering fingers and as white as lemonjuice and queen of ointmentscould make them though it was not true that she used to wear kid glovesin bed or take a milk footbath either. Bertha Supple told that onceto Edy Boardman, a deliberate lie, when she was black out at daggersdrawn with Gerty (the girl chums had of course their little tiffsfrom time to time like the rest of mortals) and she told her not tolet on whatever she did that it was her that told her or shed neverspeak to her again. No. Honour where honour is due. There was aninnate refinement, a languid queenly HAUTEUR about Gerty whichwas unmistakably evidenced in her delicate hands and higharched instep.Had kind fate but willed her to be born a gentlewoman of high degree inher own right and had she only received the benefit of a good educationGerty MacDowell might easily have held her own beside any lady in theland and have seen herself exquisitely gowned with jewels on her brow andpatrician suitors at her feet vying with one another to pay their devoirsto her. Mayhap it was this, the love that might have been, that lent toher softlyfeatured face at whiles a look, tense with suppressed meaning,that imparted a strange yearning tendency to the beautiful eyes, a charmfew could resist. Why have women such eyes of witchery? Gertys were ofthe bluest Irish blue, set off by lustrous lashes and dark expressivebrows. Time was when those brows were not so silkily seductive. It wasMadame Vera Verity, directress of the Woman Beautiful page of the PrincessNovelette, who had first advised her to try eyebrowleine which gave thathaunting expression to the eyes, so becoming in leaders of fashion, andshe had never regretted it. Then there was blushing scientifically curedand how to be tall increase your height and you have a beautiful face butyour nose? That would suit Mrs Dignam because she had a button one. ButGertys crowning glory was her wealth of wonderful hair. It was dark brownwith a natural wave in it. She had cut it that very morning on accountof the new moon and it nestled about her pretty head in a profusion ofluxuriant clusters and pared her nails too, Thursday for wealth. And justnow at Edys words as a telltale flush, delicate as the faintestrosebloom, crept into her cheeks she looked so lovely in her sweet girlishshyness that of a surety Gods fair land of Ireland did not holdher equal.For an instant she was silent with rather sad downcast eyes. She wasabout to retort but something checked the words on her tongue. Inclinationprompted her to speak out: dignity told her to be silent. The pretty lipspouted awhile but then she glanced up and broke out into a joyous littlelaugh which had in it all the freshness of a young May morning. She knewright well, no-one better, what made squinty Edy say that because of himcooling in his attentions when it was simply a lovers quarrel. As perusual somebodys nose was out of joint about the boy that had the bicycleoff the London bridge road always riding up and down in front of herwindow. Only now his father kept him in in the evenings studyinghard to get an exhibition in the intermediate that was on and he wasgoing to go to Trinity college to study for a doctor when he leftthe high school like his brother W. E. Wylie who was racing in thebicycle races in Trinity college university. Little recked he perhapsfor what she felt, that dull aching void in her heart sometimes,piercing to the core. Yet he was young and perchance he mightlearn to love her in time. They were protestants in his familyand of course Gerty knew Who came first and after Him the BlessedVirgin and then Saint Joseph. But he was undeniably handsome with anexquisite nose and he was what he looked, every inch a gentleman, theshape of his head too at the back without his cap on that she would knowanywhere something off the common and the way he turned the bicycle atthe lamp with his hands off the bars and also the nice perfume of thosegood cigarettes and besides they were both of a size too he and she andthat was why Edy Boardman thought she was so frightfully clever becausehe didnt go and ride up and down in front of her bit of a garden.Gerty was dressed simply but with the instinctive taste of a votary ofDame Fashion for she felt that there was just a might that he might beout. A neat blouse of electric blue selftinted by dolly dyes (because itwas expected in the LADYS PICTORIAL that electric blue would be worn)with a smart vee opening down to the division and kerchief pocket(in which she always kept a piece of cottonwool scented with herfavourite perfume because the handkerchief spoiled the sit) and anavy threequarter skirt cut to the stride showed off her slim gracefulfigure to perfection. She wore a coquettish little love of a hat ofwideleaved nigger straw contrast trimmed with an underbrim of eggbluechenille and at the side a butterfly bow of silk to tone. All Tuesdayweek afternoon she was hunting to match that chenille but at lastshe found what she wanted at Clerys summer sales, the very it, slightlyshopsoiled but you would never notice, seven fingers two and a penny. Shedid it up all by herself and what joy was hers when she tried it on then,smiling at the lovely reflection which the mirror gave back to her!And when she put it on the waterjug to keep the shape she knew that thatwould take the shine out of some people she knew. Her shoes were thenewest thing in footwear (Edy Boardman prided herself that she was veryPETITE but she never had a foot like Gerty MacDowell, a five, and neverwould ash, oak or elm) with patent toecaps and just one smart buckle overher higharched instep. Her wellturned ankle displayed its perfectproportions beneath her skirt and just the proper amount and no more ofher shapely limbs encased in finespun hose with highspliced heels and widegarter tops. As for undies they were Gertys chief care and who that knowsthe fluttering hopes and fears of sweet seventeen (though Gerty wouldnever see seventeen again) can find it in his heart to blame her? She hadfour dinky sets with awfully pretty stitchery, three garments andnighties extra, and each set slotted with different coloured ribbons,rosepink, pale blue, mauve and peagreen, and she aired them herselfand blued them when they came home from the wash and ironed themand she had a brickbat to keep the iron on because she wouldnt trustthose washerwomen as far as shed see them scorching the things.She was wearing the blue for luck, hoping against hope, her owncolour and lucky too for a bride to have a bit of blue somewhereon her because the green she wore that day week brought grief becausehis father brought him in to study for the intermediate exhibitionand because she thought perhaps he might be out because when she wasdressing that morning she nearly slipped up the old pair on her inside outand that was for luck and lovers meeting if you put those things oninside out or if they got untied that he was thinking about you so longas it wasnt of a Friday.And yet and yet! That strained look on her face! A gnawing sorrow isthere all the time. Her very soul is in her eyes and she would give worldsto be in the privacy of her own familiar chamber where, giving way totears, she could have a good cry and relieve her pentup feelingsthough nottoo much because she knew how to cry nicely before the mirror. You arelovely, Gerty, it said. The paly light of evening falls upon a faceinfinitely sad and wistful. Gerty MacDowell yearns in vain. Yes, she hadknown from the very first that her daydream of a marriage has beenarranged and the weddingbells ringing for Mrs Reggy Wylie T. C. D.(because the one who married the elder brother would be Mrs Wylie) and inthe fashionable intelligence Mrs Gertrude Wylie was wearing a sumptuousconfection of grey trimmed with expensive blue fox was not to be. He wastoo young to understand. He would not believe in love, a womansbirthright. The night of the party long ago in Stoers (he was still inshort trousers) when they were alone and he stole an arm round her waistshe went white to the very lips. He called her little one in a strangelyhusky voice and snatched a half kiss (the first!) but it was only the endof her nose and then he hastened from the room with a remark aboutrefreshments. Impetuous fellow! Strength of character had never been ReggyWylies strong point and he who would woo and win Gerty MacDowell must bea man among men. But waiting, always waiting to be asked and it was leapyear too and would soon be over. No prince charming is her beau ideal tolay a rare and wondrous love at her feet but rather a manly man with astrong quiet face who had not found his ideal, perhaps his hair slightlyflecked with grey, and who would understand, take her in his shelteringarms, strain her to him in all the strength of his deep passionate natureand comfort her with a long long kiss. It would be like heaven. For sucha one she yearns this balmy summer eve. With all the heart of her shelongs to be his only, his affianced bride for riches for poor, in sicknessin health, till death us two part, from this to this day forward.And while Edy Boardman was with little Tommy behind the pushcar she wasjust thinking would the day ever come when she could call herself hislittle wife to be. Then they could talk about her till they went blue inthe face, Bertha Supple too, and Edy, little spitfire, because she wouldbe twentytwo in November. She would care for him with creature comfortstoo for Gerty was womanly wise and knew that a mere man liked thatfeeling of hominess. Her griddlecakes done to a goldenbrown hue andqueen Anns pudding of delightful creaminess had won golden opinions fromall because she had a lucky hand also for lighting a fire, dredge in thefine selfraising flour and always stir in the same direction, then creamthe milk and sugar and whisk well the white of eggs though she didnt likethe eating part when there were any people that made her shy and often shewondered why you couldnt eat something poetical like violets or roses andthey would have a beautifully appointed drawingroom with pictures andengravings and the photograph of grandpapa Giltraps lovely dogGarryowen that almost talked it was so human and chintz covers for thechairs and that silver toastrack in Clerys summer jumble sales like theyhave in rich houses. He would be tall with broad shoulders (she had alwaysadmired tall men for a husband) with glistening white teeth under hiscarefully trimmed sweeping moustache and they would go on the continentfor their honeymoon (three wonderful weeks!) and then, when they settleddown in a nice snug and cosy little homely house, every morning theywould both have brekky, simple but perfectly served, for their own twoselves and before he went out to business he would give his dear littlewifey a good hearty hug and gaze for a moment deep down into her eyes.Edy Boardman asked Tommy Caffrey was he done and he said yes sothen she buttoned up his little knickerbockers for him and told him to runoff and play with Jacky and to be good now and not to fight. But Tommysaid he wanted the ball and Edy told him no that baby was playing with theball and if he took it thered be wigs on the green but Tommy said it washis ball and he wanted his ball and he pranced on the ground, if youplease. The temper of him! O, he was a man already was little TommyCaffrey since he was out of pinnies. Edy told him no, no and to be off nowwith him and she told Cissy Caffrey not to give in to him.--Youre not my sister, naughty Tommy said. Its my ball.But Cissy Caffrey told baby Boardman to look up, look up high at herfinger and she snatched the ball quickly and threw it along the sand andTommy after it in full career, having won the day.--Anything for a quiet life, laughed Ciss.And she tickled tiny tots two cheeks to make him forget and played heresthe lord mayor, heres his two horses, heres his gingerbread carriageand here he walks in, chinchopper, chinchopper, chinchopper chin. But Edygot as cross as two sticks about him getting his own way like that fromeveryone always petting him.--Id like to give him something, she said, so I would, where I wont say.--On the beeoteetom, laughed Cissy merrily.Gerty MacDowell bent down her head and crimsoned at the idea of Cissysaying an unladylike thing like that out loud shed be ashamed of herlife to say, flushing a deep rosy red, and Edy Boardman said she was surethe gentleman opposite heard what she said. But not a pin cared Ciss.--Let him! she said with a pert toss of her head and a piquant tilt of hernose. Give it to him too on the same place as quick as Id look at him.Madcap Ciss with her golliwog curls. You had to laugh at hersometimes. For instance when she asked you would you have some moreChinese tea and jaspberry ram and when she drew the jugs too and the mensfaces on her nails with red ink make you split your sides or when shewanted to go where you know she said she wanted to run and pay a visit tothe Miss White. That was just like Cissycums. O, and will you ever forgether the evening she dressed up in her fathers suit and hat and the burnedcork moustache and walked down Tritonville road, smoking a cigarette.There was none to come up to her for fun. But she was sincerity itself,one of the bravest and truest hearts heaven ever made, not one of yourtwofaced things, too sweet to be wholesome.And then there came out upon the air the sound of voices and thepealing anthem of the organ. It was the mens temperance retreat conductedby the missioner, the reverend John Hughes S. J., rosary, sermon andbenediction of the Most Blessed Sacrament. They were there gatheredtogether without distinction of social class (and a most edifyingspectacle it was to see) in that simple fane beside the waves,after the storms of this weary world, kneeling before the feet ofthe immaculate, reciting the litany of Our Lady of Loreto,beseeching her to intercede for them, the old familiar words,holy Mary, holy virgin of virgins. How sad to poor Gertys ears!Had her father only avoided the clutches of the demon drink, bytaking the pledge or those powders the drink habit cured in PearsonsWeekly, she might now be rolling in her carriage, second to none. Over andover had she told herself that as she mused by the dying embers in a brownstudy without the lamp because she hated two lights or oftentimes gazingout of the window dreamily by the hour at the rain falling on the rustybucket, thinking. But that vile decoction which has ruined so many hearthsand homes had cist its shadow over her childhood days. Nay, she had evenwitnessed in the home circle deeds of violence caused by intemperance andhad seen her own father, a prey to the fumes of intoxication, forgethimself completely for if there was one thing of all things that Gertyknew it was that the man who lifts his hand to a woman save in the way ofkindness, deserves to be branded as the lowest of the low.And still the voices sang in supplication to the Virgin most powerful,Virgin most merciful. And Gerty, rapt in thought, scarce saw or heard hercompanions or the twins at their boyish gambols or the gentleman offSandymount green that Cissy Caffrey called the man that was so likehimself passing along the strand taking a short walk. You never saw himany way screwed but still and for all that she would not like him for afather because he was too old or something or on account of his face (itwas a palpable case of Doctor Fell) or his carbuncly nose with the pimpleson it and his sandy moustache a bit white under his nose. Poor father!With all his faults she loved him still when he sang TELL ME, MARY, HOW TOWOO THEE or MY LOVE AND COTTAGE NEAR ROCHELLE and they had stewed cocklesand lettuce with Lazenbys salad dressing for supper and when he sang THEMOON HATH RAISED with Mr Dignam that died suddenly and was buried, Godhave mercy on him, from a stroke. Her mothers birthday that was andCharley was home on his holidays and Tom and Mr Dignam and Mrs andPatsy and Freddy Dignam and they were to have had a group taken.No-one would have thought the end was so near. Now he was laid to rest.And her mother said to him to let that be a warning to him for the rest ofhis days and he couldnt even go to the funeral on account of the gout andshe had to go into town to bring him the letters and samples from hisoffice about Catesbys cork lino, artistic, standard designs, fit for apalace, gives tiptop wear and always bright and cheery in the home.A sterling good daughter was Gerty just like a second mother in the house,a ministering angel too with a little heart worth its weight in gold.And when her mother had those raging splitting headaches who was itrubbed the menthol cone on her forehead but Gerty though she didnt likeher mothers taking pinches of snuff and that was the only single thingthey ever had words about, taking snuff. Everyone thought the world of herfor her gentle ways. It was Gerty who turned off the gas at the main everynight and it was Gerty who tacked up on the wall of that place where shenever forgot every fortnight the chlorate of lime Mr Tunney the grocerschristmas almanac, the picture of halcyon days where a young gentleman inthe costume they used to wear then with a threecornered hat was offering abunch of flowers to his ladylove with oldtime chivalry through her latticewindow. You could see there was a story behind it. The colours were donesomething lovely. She was in a soft clinging white in a studied attitudeand the gentleman was in chocolate and he looked a thorough aristocrat.She often looked at them dreamily when she went there for a certainpurpose and felt her own arms that were white and soft just like hers withthe sleeves back and thought about those times because she had found outin Walkers pronouncing dictionary that belonged to grandpapa Giltrapabout the halcyon days what they meant.The twins were now playing in the most approved brotherly fashion till atlast Master Jacky who was really as bold as brass there was no gettingbehind that deliberately kicked the ball as hard as ever he could downtowards the seaweedy rocks. Needless to say poor Tommy was not slow tovoice his dismay but luckily the gentleman in black who was sitting thereby himself came gallantly to the rescue and intercepted the ball. Our twochampions claimed their plaything with lusty cries and to avoid troubleCissy Caffrey called to the gentleman to throw it to her please. Thegentleman aimed the ball once or twice and then threw it up the strandtowards Cissy Caffrey but it rolled down the slope and stopped right underGertys skirt near the little pool by the rock. The twins clamoured againfor it and Cissy told her to kick it away and let them fight for it soGerty drew back her foot but she wished their stupid ball hadnt comerolling down to her and she gave a kick but she missed and Edy and Cissylaughed.--If you fail try again, Edy Boardman said.Gerty smiled assent and bit her lip. A delicate pink crept into herpretty cheek but she was determined to let them see so she just lifted herskirt a little but just enough and took good aim and gave the ball a jollygood kick and it went ever so far and the two twins after it down towardsthe shingle. Pure jealousy of course it was nothing else to draw attentionon account of the gentleman opposite looking. She felt the warm flush, adanger signal always with Gerty MacDowell, surging and flaming into hercheeks. Till then they had only exchanged glances of the most casual butnow under the brim of her new hat she ventured a look at him and the facethat met her gaze there in the twilight, wan and strangely drawn, seemedto her the saddest she had ever seen.Through the open window of the church the fragrant incense was wafted andwith it the fragrant names of her who was conceived without stain oforiginal sin, spiritual vessel, pray for us, honourable vessel, pray forus, vessel of singular devotion, pray for us, mystical rose. And carewornhearts were there and toilers for their daily bread and many who had erredand wandered, their eyes wet with contrition but for all that bright withhope for the reverend father Father Hughes had told them what the greatsaint Bernard said in his famous prayer of Mary, the most pious Virginsintercessory power that it was not recorded in any age that those whoimplored her powerful protection were ever abandoned by her.The twins were now playing again right merrily for the troubles ofchildhood are but as fleeting summer showers. Cissy Caffrey played withbaby Boardman till he crowed with glee, clapping baby hands in air. Peepshe cried behind the hood of the pushcar and Edy asked where was Cissygone and then Cissy popped up her head and cried ah! and, my word,didnt the little chap enjoy that! And then she told him to say papa.--Say papa, baby. Say pa pa pa pa pa pa pa.And baby did his level best to say it for he was very intelligent foreleven months everyone said and big for his age and the picture of health,a perfect little bunch of love, and he would certainly turn out to besomething great, they said.--Haja ja ja haja.Cissy wiped his little mouth with the dribbling bib and wanted him to situp properly and say pa pa pa but when she undid the strap she cried out,holy saint Denis, that he was possing wet and to double the half blanketthe other way under him. Of course his infant majesty was mostobstreperous at such toilet formalities and he let everyone know it:--Habaa baaaahabaaa baaaa.And two great big lovely big tears coursing down his cheeks. It was all nouse soothering him with no, nono, baby, no and telling him about thegeegee and where was the puffpuff but Ciss, always readywitted, gave himin his mouth the teat of the suckingbottle and the young heathen wasquickly appeased.Gerty wished to goodness they would take their squalling baby home out ofthat and not get on her nerves, no hour to be out, and the little bratsof twins. She gazed out towards the distant sea. It was like the paintingsthat man used to do on the pavement with all the coloured chalks and sucha pity too leaving them there to be all blotted out, the evening and theclouds coming out and the Bailey light on Howth and to hear the music likethat and the perfume of those incense they burned in the church like akind of waft. And while she gazed her heart went pitapat. Yes, it was herhe was looking at, and there was meaning in his look. His eyes burned intoher as though they would search her through and through, read her verysoul. Wonderful eyes they were, superbly expressive, but could you trustthem? People were so queer. She could see at once by his dark eyes and hispale intellectual face that he was a foreigner, the image of the photo shehad of Martin Harvey, the matinee idol, only for the moustache which shepreferred because she wasnt stagestruck like Winny Rippingham thatwanted they two to always dress the same on account of a play but shecould not see whether he had an aquiline nose or a slightly RETROUSSE fromwhere he was sitting. He was in deep mourning, she could see that, and thestory of a haunting sorrow was written on his face. She would have givenworlds to know what it was. He was looking up so intently, so still, andhe saw her kick the ball and perhaps he could see the bright steel bucklesof her shoes if she swung them like that thoughtfully with the toes down.She was glad that something told her to put on the transparent stockingsthinking Reggy Wylie might be out but that was far away. Here was that ofwhich she had so often dreamed. It was he who mattered and there was joyon her face because she wanted him because she felt instinctively that hewas like no-one else. The very heart of the girlwoman went out to him, herdreamhusband, because she knew on the instant it was him. If he hadsuffered, more sinned against than sinning, or even, even, if he had beenhimself a sinner, a wicked man, she cared not. Even if he was a protestantor methodist she could convert him easily if he truly loved her. Therewere wounds that wanted healing with heartbalm. She was a womanly womannot like other flighty girls unfeminine he had known, those cyclistsshowing off what they hadnt got and she just yearned to know all, toforgive all if she could make him fall in love with her, make him forgetthe memory of the past. Then mayhap he would embrace her gently, like areal man, crushing her soft body to him, and love her, his ownest girlie,for herself alone.Refuge of sinners. Comfortress of the afflicted. ORA PRO NOBIS. Wellhas it been said that whosoever prays to her with faith and constancy cannever be lost or cast away: and fitly is she too a haven of refuge for theafflicted because of the seven dolours which transpierced her own heart.Gerty could picture the whole scene in the church, the stained glasswindows lighted up, the candles, the flowers and the blue banners of theblessed Virgins sodality and Father Conroy was helping Canon OHanlon atthe altar, carrying things in and out with his eyes cast down. He lookedalmost a saint and his confessionbox was so quiet and clean and dark andhis hands were just like white wax and if ever she became a Dominican nunin their white habit perhaps he might come to the convent for the novenaof Saint Dominic. He told her that time when she told him about that inconfession, crimsoning up to the roots of her hair for fear he could see,not to be troubled because that was only the voice of nature and we wereall subject to natures laws, he said, in this life and that that was nosin because that came from the nature of woman instituted by God, he said,and that Our Blessed Lady herself said to the archangel Gabriel be it doneunto me according to Thy Word. He was so kind and holy and often and oftenshe thought and thought could she work a ruched teacosy with embroideredfloral design for him as a present or a clock but they had a clock shenoticed on the mantelpiece white and gold with a canarybird that came outof a little house to tell the time the day she went there about theflowers for the forty hours adoration because it was hard to know whatsort of a present to give or perhaps an album of illuminated views ofDublin or some place.The exasperating little brats of twins began to quarrel again and Jackythrew the ball out towards the sea and they both ran after it. Littlemonkeys common as ditchwater. Someone ought to take them and give thema good hiding for themselves to keep them in their places, the both ofthem. And Cissy and Edy shouted after them to come back because theywere afraid the tide might come in on them and be drowned.--Jacky! Tommy!Not they! What a great notion they had! So Cissy said it was the verylast time shed ever bring them out. She jumped up and called them and sheran down the slope past him, tossing her hair behind her which had a goodenough colour if there had been more of it but with all the thingamerryshe was always rubbing into it she couldnt get it to grow long because itwasnt natural so she could just go and throw her hat at it. She ranwith long gandery strides it was a wonder she didnt rip up her skirt atthe side that was too tight on her because there was a lot of the tomboyabout Cissy Caffrey and she was a forward piece whenever she thoughtshe had a good opportunity to show and just because she was a good runnershe ran like that so that he could see all the end of her petticoatrunning and her skinny shanks up as far as possible. It would haveserved her just right if she had tripped up over something accidentallyon purpose with her high crooked French heels on her to make her looktall and got a fine tumble. TABLEAU! That would have been a very charmingexpose for a gentleman like that to witness.Queen of angels, queen of patriarchs, queen of prophets, of all saints,they prayed, queen of the most holy rosary and then Father Conroy handedthe thurible to Canon OHanlon and he put in the incense and censed theBlessed Sacrament and Cissy Caffrey caught the two twins and she wasitching to give them a ringing good clip on the ear but she didnt becauseshe thought he might be watching but she never made a bigger mistake inall her life because Gerty could see without looking that he nevertook his eyes off of her and then Canon OHanlon handed the thuribleback to Father Conroy and knelt down looking up at the Blessed Sacramentand the choir began to sing the TANTUM ERGO and she just swung her footin and out in time as the music rose and fell to the TANTUMER GOSACRAMEN TUM. Three and eleven she paid for those stockings in Sparrowsof Georges street on the Tuesday, no the Monday before Easter and therewasnt a brack on them and that was what he was looking at, transparent,and not at her insignificant ones that had neither shape nor form(the cheek of her!) because he had eyes in his head to see the differencefor himself.Cissy came up along the strand with the two twins and their ball withher hat anyhow on her to one side after her run and she did look a streeltugging the two kids along with the flimsy blouse she bought only afortnight before like a rag on her back and a bit of her petticoat hanginglike a caricature. Gerty just took off her hat for a moment to settle herhair and a prettier, a daintier head of nutbrown tresses was never seen ona girls shoulders--a radiant little vision, in sooth, almost maddening inits sweetness. You would have to travel many a long mile before you founda head of hair the like of that. She could almost see the swift answeringflash of admiration in his eyes that set her tingling in every nerve.She put on her hat so that she could see from underneath the brim andswung her buckled shoe faster for her breath caught as she caught theexpression in his eyes. He was eying her as a snake eyes its prey. Herwomans instinct told her that she had raised the devil in him and at thethought a burning scarlet swept from throat to brow till the lovely colourof her face became a glorious rose.Edy Boardman was noticing it too because she was squinting at Gerty,half smiling, with her specs like an old maid, pretending to nurse thebaby. Irritable little gnat she was and always would be and that was whyno-one could get on with her poking her nose into what was no concern ofhers. And she said to Gerty:--A penny for your thoughts.--What? replied Gerty with a smile reinforced by the whitest of teeth.I was only wondering was it late.Because she wished to goodness theyd take the snottynosed twins and theirbabby home to the mischief out of that so that was why she just gave agentle hint about its being late. And when Cissy came up Edy asked her thetime and Miss Cissy, as glib as you like, said it was half past kissingtime, time to kiss again. But Edy wanted to know because they were told tobe in early.--Wait, said Cissy, Ill run ask my uncle Peter over there whats the timeby his conundrum.So over she went and when he saw her coming she could see him take hishand out of his pocket, getting nervous, and beginning to play with hiswatchchain, looking up at the church. Passionate nature though he wasGerty could see that he had enormous control over himself. One moment hehad been there, fascinated by a loveliness that made him gaze, and thenext moment it was the quiet gravefaced gentleman, selfcontrol expressedin every line of his distinguishedlooking figure.Cissy said to excuse her would he mind please telling her what was theright time and Gerty could see him taking out his watch, listening to itand looking up and clearing his throat and he said he was very sorry hiswatch was stopped but he thought it must be after eight because the sunwas set. His voice had a cultured ring in it and though he spoke inmeasured accents there was a suspicion of a quiver in the mellow tones.Cissy said thanks and came back with her tongue out and said uncle saidhis waterworks were out of order.Then they sang the second verse of the TANTUM ERGO and CanonOHanlon got up again and censed the Blessed Sacrament and knelt down andhe told Father Conroy that one of the candles was just going to set fireto the flowers and Father Conroy got up and settled it all right and shecould see the gentleman winding his watch and listening to the works andshe swung her leg more in and out in time. It was getting darker but hecould see and he was looking all the time that he was winding the watch orwhatever he was doing to it and then he put it back and put his hands backinto his pockets. She felt a kind of a sensation rushing all over her andshe knew by the feel of her scalp and that irritation against her staysthat that thing must be coming on because the last time too was when sheclipped her hair on account of the moon. His dark eyes fixed themselveson her again drinking in her every contour, literally worshipping at hershrine. If ever there was undisguised admiration in a mans passionategaze it was there plain to be seen on that mans face. It is for you,Gertrude MacDowell, and you know it.Edy began to get ready to go and it was high time for her and Gertynoticed that that little hint she gave had had the desired effect becauseit was a long way along the strand to where there was the place to push upthe pushcar and Cissy took off the twins caps and tidied their hair tomake herself attractive of course and Canon OHanlon stood up with hiscope poking up at his neck and Father Conroy handed him the card to readoff and he read out PANEM DE COELO PRAESTITISTI EIS and Edy and Cissy weretalking about the time all the time and asking her but Gerty could paythem back in their own coin and she just answered with scathing politenesswhen Edy asked her was she heartbroken about her best boy throwing herover. Gerty winced sharply. A brief cold blaze shone from her eyes thatspoke volumes of scorn immeasurable. It hurt--O yes, it cut deep becauseEdy had her own quiet way of saying things like that she knew would woundlike the confounded little cat she was. Gertys lips parted swiftly toframe the word but she fought back the sob that rose to her throat,so slim, so flawless, so beautifully moulded it seemed one an artistmight have dreamed of. She had loved him better than he knew.Lighthearted deceiver and fickle like all his sex he would neverunderstand what he had meant to her and for an instant there wasin the blue eyes a quick stinging of tears. Their eyes wereprobing her mercilessly but with a brave effort she sparkled back insympathy as she glanced at her new conquest for them to see.--O, responded Gerty, quick as lightning, laughing, and the proud headflashed up. I can throw my cap at who I like because its leap year.Her words rang out crystalclear, more musical than the cooing of theringdove, but they cut the silence icily. There was that in her youngvoice that told that she was not a one to be lightly trifled with.As for Mr Reggy with his swank and his bit of money she could justchuck him aside as if he was so much filth and never again would shecast as much as a second thought on him and tear his silly postcardinto a dozen pieces. And if ever after he dared to presume shecould give him one look of measured scorn that would make himshrivel up on the spot. Miss puny little Edys countenance fell tono slight extent and Gerty could see by her looking as black asthunder that she was simply in a towering rage though she hid it, thelittle kinnatt, because that shaft had struck home for her petty jealousyand they both knew that she was something aloof, apart, in another sphere,that she was not of them and never would be and there was somebody elsetoo that knew it and saw it so they could put that in their pipeand smoke it.Edy straightened up baby Boardman to get ready to go and Cissytucked in the ball and the spades and buckets and it was high time toobecause the sandman was on his way for Master Boardman junior. AndCissy told him too that billy winks was coming and that baby was to godeedaw and baby looked just too ducky, laughing up out of his gleefuleyes, and Cissy poked him like that out of fun in his wee fat tummy andbaby, without as much as by your leave, sent up his compliments to alland sundry on to his brandnew dribbling bib.--O my! Puddeny pie! protested Ciss. He has his bib destroyed.The slight CONTRETEMPS claimed her attention but in two twos she setthat little matter to rights.Gerty stifled a smothered exclamation and gave a nervous cough andEdy asked what and she was just going to tell her to catch it while it wasflying but she was ever ladylike in her deportment so she simply passed itoff with consummate tact by saying that that was the benediction becausejust then the bell rang out from the steeple over the quiet seashorebecause Canon OHanlon was up on the altar with the veil that FatherConroy put round his shoulders giving the benediction with the BlessedSacrament in his hands.How moving the scene there in the gathering twilight, the last glimpse ofErin, the touching chime of those evening bells and at the same time a batflew forth from the ivied belfry through the dusk, hither, thither, with atiny lost cry. And she could see far away the lights of the lighthouses sopicturesque she would have loved to do with a box of paints because it waseasier than to make a man and soon the lamplighter would be going hisrounds past the presbyterian church grounds and along by shadyTritonville avenue where the couples walked and lighting the lamp near herwindow where Reggy Wylie used to turn his freewheel like she read in thatbook THE LAMPLIGHTER by Miss Cummins, author of MABEL VAUGHAN andother tales. For Gerty had her dreams that no-one knew of. She loved toread poetry and when she got a keepsake from Bertha Supple of that lovelyconfession album with the coralpink cover to write her thoughts in shelaid it in the drawer of her toilettable which, though it did not erron the side of luxury, was scrupulously neat and clean. It was thereshe kept her girlish treasure trove, the tortoiseshell combs, herchild of Mary badge, the whiterose scent, the eyebrowleine, heralabaster pouncetbox and the ribbons to change when her things camehome from the wash and there were some beautiful thoughts writtenin it in violet ink that she bought in Helys of Dame Street forshe felt that she too could write poetry if she could only expressherself like that poem that appealed to her so deeply that she hadcopied out of the newspaper she found one evening round the potherbs. ARTTHOU REAL, MY IDEAL? it was called by Louis J Walsh, Magherafelt, andafter there was something about TWILIGHT, WILT THOU EVER? and ofttimesthe beauty of poetry, so sad in its transient loveliness, had mistedher eyes with silent tears for she felt that the years were slippingby for her, one by one, and but for that one shortcoming she knew sheneed fear no competition and that was an accident coming down Dalkeyhill and she always tried to conceal it. But it must end, she felt.If she saw that magic lure in his eyes there would be no holdingback for her. Love laughs at locksmiths. She would make the greatsacrifice. Her every effort would be to share his thoughts. Dearer thanthe whole world would she be to him and gild his days with happiness.There was the allimportant question and she was dying to know was he amarried man or a widower who had lost his wife or some tragedy like thenobleman with the foreign name from the land of song had to have her putinto a madhouse, cruel only to be kind. But even if--what then? Would itmake a very great difference? From everything in the least indelicate herfinebred nature instinctively recoiled. She loathed that sort of person,the fallen women off the accommodation walk beside the Dodder that wentwith the soldiers and coarse men with no respect for a girls honour,degrading the sex and being taken up to the police station. No, no: notthat. They would be just good friends like a big brother and sisterwithout all that other in spite of the conventions of Society with a bigess. Perhaps it was an old flame he was in mourning for from the daysbeyond recall. She thought she understood. She would try to understandhim because men were so different. The old love was waiting, waitingwith little white hands stretched out, with blue appealing eyes. Heartof mine! She would follow, her dream of love, the dictates of her heartthat told her he was her all in all, the only man in all the worldfor her for love was the master guide. Nothing else mattered. Come whatmight she would be wild, untrammelled, free.Canon OHanlon put the Blessed Sacrament back into the tabernacleand genuflected and the choir sang LAUDATE DOMINUM OMNES GENTES andthen he locked the tabernacle door because the benediction was over andFather Conroy handed him his hat to put on and crosscat Edy asked wasntshe coming but Jacky Caffrey called out:--O, look, Cissy!And they all looked was it sheet lightning but Tommy saw it too overthe trees beside the church, blue and then green and purple.--Its fireworks, Cissy Caffrey said.And they all ran down the strand to see over the houses and thechurch, helterskelter, Edy with the pushcar with baby Boardman in it andCissy holding Tommy and Jacky by the hand so they wouldnt fall running.--Come on, Gerty, Cissy called. Its the bazaar fireworks.But Gerty was adamant. She had no intention of being at their beck andcall. If they could run like rossies she could sit so she said she couldsee from where she was. The eyes that were fastened upon her sether pulses tingling. She looked at him a moment, meeting his glance,and a light broke in upon her. Whitehot passion was in that face, passionsilent as the grave, and it had made her his. At last they were leftalone without the others to pry and pass remarks and she knew hecould be trusted to the death, steadfast, a sterling man, a man ofinflexible honour to his fingertips. His hands and face were workingand a tremour went over her. She leaned back far to look up wherethe fireworks were and she caught her knee in her hands so as notto fall back looking up and there was no-one to see only him andher when she revealed all her graceful beautifully shaped legs like that,supply soft and delicately rounded, and she seemed to hear the pantingof his heart, his hoarse breathing, because she knew too about the passionof men like that, hotblooded, because Bertha Supple told her once in deadsecret and made her swear shed never about the gentleman lodger that wasstaying with them out of the Congested Districts Board that had picturescut out of papers of those skirtdancers and highkickers and she said heused to do something not very nice that you could imagine sometimes inthe bed. But this was altogether different from a thing like thatbecause there was all the difference because she could almost feelhim draw her face to his and the first quick hot touch of hishandsome lips. Besides there was absolution so long as you didntdo the other thing before being married and there ought to bewomen priests that would understand without your telling out andCissy Caffrey too sometimes had that dreamy kind of dreamy lookin her eyes so that she too, my dear, and Winny Rippingham so madabout actors photographs and besides it was on account of that otherthing coming on the way it did.And Jacky Caffrey shouted to look, there was another and she leaned backand the garters were blue to match on account of the transparent and theyall saw it and they all shouted to look, look, there it was and she leanedback ever so far to see the fireworks and something queer was flyingthrough the air, a soft thing, to and fro, dark. And she saw a long Romancandle going up over the trees, up, up, and, in the tense hush,they were all breathless with excitement as it went higher and higherand she had to lean back more and more to look up after it, high,high, almost out of sight, and her face was suffused with a divine,an entrancing blush from straining back and he could see her otherthings too, nainsook knickers, the fabric that caresses the skin,better than those other pettiwidth, the green, four and eleven,on account of being white and she let him and she saw that he saw and thenit went so high it went out of sight a moment and she was trembling inevery limb from being bent so far back that he had a full viewhigh up above her knee where no-one ever not even on the swing or wadingand she wasnt ashamed and he wasnt either to look in that immodest waylike that because he couldnt resist the sight of the wondrous revealmenthalf offered like those skirtdancers behaving so immodest before gentlemenlooking and he kept on looking, looking. She would fain have cried to himchokingly, held out her snowy slender arms to him to come, to feel hislips laid on her white brow, the cry of a young girls love, a littlestrangled cry, wrung from her, that cry that has rung through the ages.And then a rocket sprang and bang shot blind blank and O! then the Romancandle burst and it was like a sigh of O! and everyone cried O! O! inraptures and it gushed out of it a stream of rain gold hair threads andthey shed and ah! they were all greeny dewy stars falling with golden,O so lovely, O, soft, sweet, soft!Then all melted away dewily in the grey air: all was silent. Ah! Sheglanced at him as she bent forward quickly, a pathetic little glance ofpiteous protest, of shy reproach under which he coloured like a girlHe was leaning back against the rock behind. Leopold Bloom (for it is he)stands silent, with bowed head before those young guileless eyes. What abrute he had been! At it again? A fair unsullied soul had called to himand, wretch that he was, how had he answered? An utter cad he had been!He of all men! But there was an infinite store of mercy in those eyes,for him too a word of pardon even though he had erred and sinned andwandered. Should a girl tell? No, a thousand times no. That was theirsecret, only theirs, alone in the hiding twilight and there was none toknow or tell save the little bat that flew so softly through the eveningto and fro and little bats dont tell.Cissy Caffrey whistled, imitating the boys in the football field to showwhat a great person she was: and then she cried:--Gerty! Gerty! Were going. Come on. We can see from farther up.Gerty had an idea, one of loves little ruses. She slipped a hand intoher kerchief pocket and took out the wadding and waved in reply of coursewithout letting him and then slipped it back. Wonder if hes too far to.She rose. Was it goodbye? No. She had to go but they would meet again,there, and she would dream of that till then, tomorrow, of her dream ofyester eve. She drew herself up to her full height. Their souls met in alast lingering glance and the eyes that reached her heart, full of astrange shining, hung enraptured on her sweet flowerlike face. She halfsmiled at him wanly, a sweet forgiving smile, a smile that verged ontears, and then they parted.Slowly, without looking back she went down the uneven strand toCissy, to Edy to Jacky and Tommy Caffrey, to little baby Boardman. It wasdarker now and there were stones and bits of wood on the strand and slippyseaweed. She walked with a certain quiet dignity characteristic of her butwith care and very slowly because--because Gerty MacDowell was ...Tight boots? No. Shes lame! O!Mr Bloom watched her as she limped away. Poor girl! Thats why shes lefton the shelf and the others did a sprint. Thought something was wrong bythe cut of her jib. Jilted beauty. A defect is ten times worse in a woman.But makes them polite. Glad I didnt know it when she was on show. Hotlittle devil all the same. I wouldnt mind. Curiosity like a nun or anegress or a girl with glasses. That squinty one is delicate. Near hermonthlies, I expect, makes them feel ticklish. I have such a bad headachetoday. Where did I put the letter? Yes, all right. All kinds of crazylongings. Licking pennies. Girl in Tranquilla convent that nun toldme liked to smell rock oil. Virgins go mad in the end I suppose.Sister? How many women in Dublin have it today? Martha, she. Somethingin the air. Thats the moon. But then why dont all women menstruateat the same time with the same moon, I mean? Depends on the timethey were born I suppose. Or all start scratch then get out of step.Sometimes Molly and Milly together. Anyhow I got the best of that.Damned glad I didnt do it in the bath this morning over her sillyI will punish you letter. Made up for that tramdriver this morning.That gouger MCoy stopping me to say nothing. And his wifeengagement in the country valise, voice like a pickaxe. Thankful for smallmercies. Cheap too. Yours for the asking. Because they want it themselves.Their natural craving. Shoals of them every evening poured out of offices.Reserve better. Dont want it they throw it at you. Catch em alive, O.Pity they cant see themselves. A dream of wellfilled hose. Where wasthat? Ah, yes. Mutoscope pictures in Capel street: for men only. PeepingTom. Willys hat and what the girls did with it. Do they snapshotthose girls or is it all a fake? LINGERIE does it. Felt for thecurves inside her DESHABILLE. Excites them also when theyre. Im allclean come and dirty me. And they like dressing one another for thesacrifice. Milly delighted with Mollys new blouse. At first.Put them all on to take them all off. Molly. Why I bought her the violetgarters. Us too: the tie he wore, his lovely socks and turnedup trousers.He wore a pair of gaiters the night that first we met. His lovelyshirt was shining beneath his what? of jet. Say a woman loses a charm withevery pin she takes out. Pinned together. O, Mairy lost the pin of her.Dressed up to the nines for somebody. Fashion part of their charm. Justchanges when youre on the track of the secret. Except the east: Mary,Martha: now as then. No reasonable offer refused. She wasnt in a hurryeither. Always off to a fellow when they are. They never forget anappointment. Out on spec probably. They believe in chance because likethemselves. And the others inclined to give her an odd dig. Girl friendsat school, arms round each others necks or with ten fingers locked,kissing and whispering secrets about nothing in the convent garden. Nunswith whitewashed faces, cool coifs and their rosaries going up and down,vindictive too for what they cant get. Barbed wire. Be sure now and writeto me. And Ill write to you. Now wont you? Molly and Josie Powell. TillMr Right comes along, then meet once in a blue moon. TABLEAU! O, lookwho it is for the love of God! How are you at all? What have you beendoing with yourself? Kiss and delighted to, kiss, to see you. Pickingholes in each others appearance. Youre looking splendid. Sister souls.Showing their teeth at one another. How many have you left? Wouldnt lendeach other a pinch of salt.Ah!Devils they are when thats coming on them. Dark devilish appearance.Molly often told me feel things a ton weight. Scratch the sole ofmy foot. O that way! O, thats exquisite! Feel it myself too. Good to restonce in a way. Wonder if its bad to go with them then. Safe in one way.Turns milk, makes fiddlestrings snap. Something about withering plants Iread in a garden. Besides they say if the flower withers she wears shes aflirt. All are. Daresay she felt . When you feel like that you often meetwhat you feel. Liked me or what? Dress they look at. Always know a fellowcourting: collars and cuffs. Well cocks and lions do the same and stags.Same time might prefer a tie undone or something. Trousers? Suppose Iwhen I was? No. Gently does it. Dislike rough and tumble. Kiss in the darkand never tell. Saw something in me. Wonder what. Sooner have me as I amthan some poet chap with bearsgrease plastery hair, lovelock over hisdexter optic. To aid gentleman in literary. Ought to attend to myappearance my age. Didnt let her see me in profile. Still, younever know. Pretty girls and ugly men marrying. Beauty and thebeast. Besides I cant be so if Molly. Took off her hat to showher hair. Wide brim. Bought to hide her face, meeting someone mightknow her, bend down or carry a bunch of flowers to smell. Hairstrong in rut. Ten bob I got for Mollys combings when we were onthe rocks in Holles street. Why not? Suppose he gave her money.Why not? All a prejudice. Shes worth ten, fifteen, more, a pound. What? Ithink so. All that for nothing. Bold hand: Mrs Marion. Did I forget towrite address on that letter like the postcard I sent to Flynn? And theday I went to Drimmies without a necktie. Wrangle with Molly it was putme off. No, I remember. Richie Goulding: hes another. Weighs on his mind.Funny my watch stopped at half past four. Dust. Shark liver oil they useto clean. Could do it myself. Save. Was that just when he, she?O, he did. Into her. She did. Done.Ah!Mr Bloom with careful hand recomposed his wet shirt. O Lord, that littlelimping devil. Begins to feel cold and clammy. Aftereffect not pleasant.Still you have to get rid of it someway. They dont care. Complimentedperhaps. Go home to nicey bread and milky and say night prayers with thekiddies. Well, arent they? See her as she is spoil all. Must have thestage setting, the rouge, costume, position, music. The name too. AMOURSof actresses. Nell Gwynn, Mrs Bracegirdle, Maud Branscombe. Curtain up.Moonlight silver effulgence. Maiden discovered with pensive bosom. Littlesweetheart come and kiss me. Still, I feel. The strength it gives a man.Thats the secret of it. Good job I let off there behind the wall comingout of Dignams. Cider that was. Otherwise I couldnt have. Makes you wantto sing after. LACAUS ESANT TARATARA. Suppose I spoke to her. What about?Bad plan however if you dont know how to end the conversation. Ask them aquestion they ask you another. Good idea if youre stuck. Gain time. Butthen youre in a cart. Wonderful of course if you say: good evening, andyou see shes on for it: good evening. O but the dark evening in theAppian way I nearly spoke to Mrs Clinch O thinking she was. Whew! Girl inMeath street that night. All the dirty things I made her say. All wrong ofcourse. My arks she called it. Its so hard to find one who. Aho! If youdont answer when they solicit must be horrible for them till they harden.And kissed my hand when I gave her the extra two shillings. Parrots. Pressthe button and the bird will squeak. Wish she hadnt called me sir. O, hermouth in the dark! And you a married man with a single girl! Thats whatthey enjoy. Taking a man from another woman. Or even hear of it.Different with me. Glad to get away from other chaps wife. Eating off hiscold plate. Chap in the Burton today spitting back gumchewed gristle.French letter still in my pocketbook. Cause of half the trouble. But mighthappen sometime, I dont think. Come in, all is prepared. I dreamt. What?Worst is beginning. How they change the venue when its not what theylike. Ask you do you like mushrooms because she once knew a gentlemanwho. Or ask you what someone was going to say when he changed hismind and stopped. Yet if I went the whole hog, say: I want to, somethinglike that. Because I did. She too. Offend her. Then make it up. Pretend towant something awfully, then cry off for her sake. Flatters them. She musthave been thinking of someone else all the time. What harm? Must since shecame to the use of reason, he, he and he. First kiss does the trick. Thepropitious moment. Something inside them goes pop. Mushy like, tell bytheir eye, on the sly. First thoughts are best. Remember that till theirdying day. Molly, lieutenant Mulvey that kissed her under the Moorish wallbeside the gardens. Fifteen she told me. But her breasts were developed.Fell asleep then. After Glencree dinner that was when we drove home.Featherbed mountain. Gnashing her teeth in sleep. Lord mayor had his eyeon her too. Val Dillon. Apoplectic.There she is with them down there for the fireworks. My fireworks.Up like a rocket, down like a stick. And the children, twins they must be,waiting for something to happen. Want to be grownups. Dressing inmothers clothes. Time enough, understand all the ways of the world. Andthe dark one with the mop head and the nigger mouth. I knew she couldwhistle. Mouth made for that. Like Molly. Why that highclass whore inJammets wore her veil only to her nose. Would you mind, please, tellingme the right time? Ill tell you the right time up a dark lane. Say prunesand prisms forty times every morning, cure for fat lips. Caressing thelittle boy too. Onlookers see most of the game. Of course they understandbirds, animals, babies. In their line.Didnt look back when she was going down the strand. Wouldnt give thatsatisfaction. Those girls, those girls, those lovely seaside girls. Fineeyes she had, clear. Its the white of the eye brings that out not so muchthe pupil. Did she know what I? Course. Like a cat sitting beyond a dogsjump. Women never meet one like that Wilkins in the high school drawing apicture of Venus with all his belongings on show. Call that innocence?Poor idiot! His wife has her work cut out for her. Never see them siton a bench marked WET PAINT. Eyes all over them. Look under the bedfor whats not there. Longing to get the fright of their lives.Sharp as needles they are. When I said to Molly the man at the cornerof Cuffe street was goodlooking, thought she might like, twigged atonce he had a false arm. Had, too. Where do they get that? Typistgoing up Roger Greenes stairs two at a time to show her understandings.Handed down from father to, mother to daughter, I mean. Bred in thebone. Milly for example drying her handkerchief on the mirror tosave the ironing. Best place for an ad to catch a womans eye on amirror. And when I sent her for Mollys Paisley shawl to Prescotts by the way that ad I must, carrying home the change in her stocking!Clever little minx. I never told her. Neat way she carries parcelstoo. Attract men, small thing like that. Holding up her hand, shaking it,to let the blood flow back when it was red. Who did you learn that from?Nobody. Something the nurse taught me. O, dont they know! Three yearsold she was in front of Mollys dressingtable, just before we left Lombardstreet west. Me have a nice pace. Mullingar. Who knows? Ways of theworld. Young student. Straight on her pins anyway not like the other.Still she was game. Lord, I am wet. Devil you are. Swell of her calf.Transparent stockings, stretched to breaking point. Not like that frumptoday. A. E. Rumpled stockings. Or the one in Grafton street. White. Wow!Beef to the heel.A monkey puzzle rocket burst, spluttering in darting crackles. Zradsand zrads, zrads, zrads. And Cissy and Tommy and Jacky ran out to seeand Edy after with the pushcar and then Gerty beyond the curve of therocks. Will she? Watch! Watch! See! Looked round. She smelt an onion.Darling, I saw, your. I saw all.Lord!Did me good all the same. Off colour after Kiernans, Dignams. Forthis relief much thanks. In HAMLET, that is. Lord! It was all thingscombined. Excitement. When she leaned back, felt an ache at the butt of mytongue. Your head it simply swirls. Hes right. Might have made a worsefool of myself however. Instead of talking about nothing. Then I will tellyou all. Still it was a kind of language between us. It couldnt be? No,Gerty they called her. Might be false name however like my name and theaddress Dolphins barn a blind.    HER MAIDEN NAME WAS JEMINA BROWN    AND SHE LIVED WITH HER MOTHER IN IRISHTOWN.Place made me think of that I suppose. All tarred with the same brush Wiping pens in their stockings. But the ball rolled down to her as if itunderstood. Every bullet has its billet. Course I never could throwanything straight at school. Crooked as a rams horn. Sad however becauseit lasts only a few years till they settle down to potwalloping and papaspants will soon fit Willy and fullers earth for the baby when they holdhim out to do ah ah. No soft job. Saves them. Keeps them out of harmsway. Nature. Washing child, washing corpse. Dignam. Childrens handsalways round them. Cocoanut skulls, monkeys, not even closed at first,sour milk in their swaddles and tainted curds. Oughtnt to have giventhat child an empty teat to suck. Fill it up with wind. Mrs Beaufoy,Purefoy. Must call to the hospital. Wonder is nurse Callan there still.She used to look over some nights when Molly was in the Coffee Palace.That young doctor OHare I noticed her brushing his coat. And Mrs Breenand Mrs Dignam once like that too, marriageable. Worst of all at nightMrs Duggan told me in the City Arms. Husband rolling in drunk, stink ofpub off him like a polecat. Have that in your nose in the dark,whiff of stale boose. Then ask in the morning: was I drunk lastnight? Bad policy however to fault the husband. Chickens comehome to roost. They stick by one another like glue. Maybe thewomens fault also. Thats where Molly can knock spots off them. Its theblood of the south. Moorish. Also the form, the figure. Hands felt for theopulent. Just compare for instance those others. Wife locked up at home,skeleton in the cupboard. Allow me to introduce my. Then they trot you outsome kind of a nondescript, wouldnt know what to call her. Always see afellows weak point in his wife. Still theres destiny in it, falling inlove. Have their own secrets between them. Chaps that would go to the dogsif some woman didnt take them in hand. Then little chits of girls,height of a shilling in coppers, with little hubbies. As God made them hematched them. Sometimes children turn out well enough. Twice nought makesone. Or old rich chap of seventy and blushing bride. Marry in May andrepent in December. This wet is very unpleasant. Stuck. Well the foreskinis not back. Better detach.Ow!Other hand a sixfooter with a wifey up to his watchpocket. Long andthe short of it. Big he and little she. Very strange about my watch.Wristwatches are always going wrong. Wonder is there any magneticinfluence between the person because that was about the time he. Yes, Isuppose, at once. Cats away, the mice will play. I remember looking inPill lane. Also that now is magnetism. Back of everything magnetism. Earthfor instance pulling this and being pulled. That causes movement. Andtime, well thats the time the movement takes. Then if one thing stoppedthe whole ghesabo would stop bit by bit. Because its all arranged.Magnetic needle tells you whats going on in the sun, the stars. Littlepiece of steel iron. When you hold out the fork. Come. Come. Tip. Womanand man that is. Fork and steel. Molly, he. Dress up and look and suggestand let you see and see more and defy you if youre a man to see that and,like a sneeze coming, legs, look, look and if you have any guts in you.Tip. Have to let fly.Wonder how is she feeling in that region. Shame all put on beforethird person. More put out about a hole in her stocking. Molly, herunderjaw stuck out, head back, about the farmer in the ridingboots andspurs at the horse show. And when the painters were in Lombard streetwest. Fine voice that fellow had. How Giuglini began. Smell that I did.Like flowers. It was too. Violets. Came from the turpentine probably inthe paint. Make their own use of everything. Same time doing it scrapedher slipper on the floor so they wouldnt hear. But lots of them cantkick the beam, I think. Keep that thing up for hours. Kind of a generalall round over me and half down my back.Wait. Hm. Hm. Yes. Thats her perfume. Why she waved her hand. Ileave you this to think of me when Im far away on the pillow. What is it?Heliotrope? No. Hyacinth? Hm. Roses, I think. Shed like scent of thatkind. Sweet and cheap: soon sour. Why Molly likes opoponax. Suits her,with a little jessamine mixed. Her high notes and her low notes. At thedance night she met him, dance of the hours. Heat brought it out. She waswearing her black and it had the perfume of the time before. Goodconductor, is it? Or bad? Light too. Suppose theres some connection. Forinstance if you go into a cellar where its dark. Mysterious thing too.Why did I smell it only now? Took its time in coming like herself, slowbut sure. Suppose its ever so many millions of tiny grains blown across.Yes, it is. Because those spice islands, Cinghalese this morning, smellthem leagues off. Tell you what it is. Its like a fine fine veil or webthey have all over the skin, fine like what do you call it gossamer, andtheyre always spinning it out of them, fine as anything, like rainbowcolours without knowing it. Clings to everything she takes off. Vamp ofher stockings. Warm shoe. Stays. Drawers: little kick, taking them off.Byby till next time. Also the cat likes to sniff in her shift onthe bed. Know her smell in a thousand. Bathwater too. Reminds me ofstrawberries and cream. Wonder where it is really. There or the armpitsor under the neck. Because you get it out of all holes and corners.Hyacinth perfume made of oil of ether or something. Muskrat.Bag under their tails. One grain pour off odour for years. Dogs ateach other behind. Good evening. Evening. How do you sniff? Hm. Hm.Very well, thank you. Animals go by that. Yes now, look at it that way.Were the same. Some women, instance, warn you off when they have theirperiod. Come near. Then get a hogo you could hang your hat on. Likewhat? Potted herrings gone stale or. Boof! Please keep off the grass.Perhaps they get a man smell off us. What though? Cigary gloves longJohn had on his desk the other day. Breath? What you eat and drink givesthat. No. Mansmell, I mean. Must be connected with that because prieststhat are supposed to be are different. Women buzz round it like fliesround treacle. Railed off the altar get on to it at any cost. The treeof forbidden priest. O, father, will you? Let me be the first to.That diffuses itself all through the body, permeates. Source of life.And its extremely curious the smell. Celery sauce. Let me.Mr Bloom inserted his nose. Hm. Into the. Hm. Opening of hiswaistcoat. Almonds or. No. Lemons it is. Ah no, thats the soap.O by the by that lotion. I knew there was something on my mind.Never went back and the soap not paid. Dislike carrying bottles like thathag this morning. Hynes might have paid me that three shillings. I couldmention Meaghers just to remind him. Still if he works that paragraph.Two and nine. Bad opinion of me hell have. Call tomorrow. How much doI owe you? Three and nine? Two and nine, sir. Ah. Might stop him givingcredit another time. Lose your customers that way. Pubs do. Fellows run upa bill on the slate and then slinking around the back streets intosomewhere else.Heres this nobleman passed before. Blown in from the bay. Just wentas far as turn back. Always at home at dinnertime. Looks mangled out: hada good tuck in. Enjoying nature now. Grace after meals. After supper walka mile. Sure he has a small bank balance somewhere, government sit. Walkafter him now make him awkward like those newsboys me today. Still youlearn something. See ourselves as others see us. So long as women dontmock what matter? Thats the way to find out. Ask yourself who is he now.THE MYSTERY MAN ON THE BEACH, prize titbit story by Mr Leopold Bloom.Payment at the rate of one guinea per column. And that fellow today at thegraveside in the brown macintosh. Corns on his kismet however. Healthyperhaps absorb all the. Whistle brings rain they say. Must be somesomewhere. Salt in the Ormond damp. The body feels the atmosphere. OldBettys joints are on the rack. Mother Shiptons prophecy that is aboutships around they fly in the twinkling. No. Signs of rain it is. The royalreader. And distant hills seem coming nigh.Howth. Bailey light. Two, four, six, eight, nine. See. Has to change orthey might think it a house. Wreckers. Grace Darling. People afraid of thedark. Also glowworms, cyclists: lightingup time. Jewels diamonds flashbetter. Women. Light is a kind of reassuring. Not going to hurt you.Better now of course than long ago. Country roads. Run you through thesmall guts for nothing. Still two types there are you bob against.Scowl or smile. Pardon! Not at all. Best time to spray plants too in theshade after the sun. Some light still. Red rays are longest. RoygbivVance taught us: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet.A star I see. Venus? Cant tell yet. Two. When three its night. Werethose nightclouds there all the time? Looks like a phantom ship. No.Wait. Trees are they? An optical illusion. Mirage. Land of the settingsun this. Homerule sun setting in the southeast. My native land,goodnight.Dew falling. Bad for you, dear, to sit on that stone. Brings on whitefluxions. Never have little baby then less he was big strong fight his wayup through. Might get piles myself. Sticks too like a summer cold, sore onthe mouth. Cut with grass or paper worst. Friction of the position.Like to be that rock she sat on. O sweet little, you dont know how niceyou looked. I begin to like them at that age. Green apples. Grab at allthat offer. Suppose its the only time we cross legs, seated. Also thelibrary today: those girl graduates. Happy chairs under them. But itsthe evening influence. They feel all that. Open like flowers, knowtheir hours, sunflowers, Jerusalem artichokes, in ballrooms, chandeliers,avenues under the lamps. Nightstock in Mat Dillons garden where I kissedher shoulder. Wish I had a full length oilpainting of her then. Junethat was too I wooed. The year returns. History repeats itself.Ye crags and peaks Im with you once again. Life, love, voyage roundyour own little world. And now? Sad about her lame of course but mustbe on your guard not to feel too much pity. They take advantage.All quiet on Howth now. The distant hills seem. Where we. Therhododendrons. I am a fool perhaps. He gets the plums, and I theplumstones. Where I come in. All that old hill has seen. Names change:thats all. Lovers: yum yum.Tired I feel now. Will I get up? O wait. Drained all the manhood outof me, little wretch. She kissed me. Never again. My youth. Only once itcomes. Or hers. Take the train there tomorrow. No. Returning not thesame. Like kids your second visit to a house. The new I want. Nothing newunder the sun. Care of P. O. Dolphins Barn. Are you not happy in your?Naughty darling. At Dolphins barn charades in Luke Doyles house. MatDillon and his bevy of daughters: Tiny, Atty, Floey, Maimy, Louy, Hetty.Molly too. Eightyseven that was. Year before we. And the old major,partial to his drop of spirits. Curious she an only child, I an onlychild. So it returns. Think youre escaping and run into yourself. Longestway round is the shortest way home. And just when he and she. Circus horsewalking in a ring. Rip van Winkle we played. Rip: tear in Henny Doylesovercoat. Van: breadvan delivering. Winkle: cockles and periwinkles. ThenI did Rip van Winkle coming back. She leaned on the sideboard watching.Moorish eyes. Twenty years asleep in Sleepy Hollow. All changed.Forgotten. The young are old. His gun rusty from the dew.Ba. What is that flying about? Swallow? Bat probably. Thinks Im a tree,so blind. Have birds no smell? Metempsychosis. They believed you could bechanged into a tree from grief. Weeping willow. Ba. There he goes.Funny little beggar. Wonder where he lives. Belfry up there. Very likely.Hanging by his heels in the odour of sanctity. Bell scared him out, Isuppose. Mass seems to be over. Could hear them all at it. Pray for us.And pray for us. And pray for us. Good idea the repetition. Samething with ads. Buy from us. And buy from us. Yes, theres the lightin the priests house. Their frugal meal. Remember about the mistakein the valuation when I was in Thoms. Twentyeight it is. Two housesthey have. Gabriel Conroys brother is curate. Ba. Again. Wonder whythey come out at night like mice. Theyre a mixed breed. Birds arelike hopping mice. What frightens them, light or noise? Better sit still.All instinct like the bird in drouth got water out of the end of ajar by throwing in pebbles. Like a little man in a cloak he is with tinyhands. Weeny bones. Almost see them shimmering, kind of a bluey white.Colours depend on the light you see. Stare the sun for examplelike the eagle then look at a shoe see a blotch blob yellowish. Wants tostamp his trademark on everything. Instance, that cat this morning on thestaircase. Colour of brown turf. Say you never see them with threecolours. Not true. That half tabbywhite tortoiseshell in the CITY ARMSwith the letter em on her forehead. Body fifty different colours. Howtha while ago amethyst. Glass flashing. Thats how that wise man whats hisname with the burning glass. Then the heather goes on fire. It cant betourists matches. What? Perhaps the sticks dry rub together in the windand light. Or broken bottles in the furze act as a burning glass in thesun. Archimedes. I have it! My memorys not so bad.Ba. Who knows what theyre always flying for. Insects? That bee last weekgot into the room playing with his shadow on the ceiling. Might be theone bit me, come back to see. Birds too. Never find out. Or what they say.Like our small talk. And says she and says he. Nerve they have to fly overthe ocean and back. Lots must be killed in storms, telegraph wires.Dreadful life sailors have too. Big brutes of oceangoing steamersfloundering along in the dark, lowing out like seacows. FAUGH A BALLAGH!Out of that, bloody curse to you! Others in vessels, bit of a handkerchiefsail, pitched about like snuff at a wake when the stormy winds do blow.Married too. Sometimes away for years at the ends of the earth somewhere.No ends really because its round. Wife in every port they say. She has agood job if she minds it till Johnny comes marching home again. If ever hedoes. Smelling the tail end of ports. How can they like the sea? Yet theydo. The anchors weighed. Off he sails with a scapular or a medalon him for luck. Well. And the tephilim no whats this they call it poorpapas father had on his door to touch. That brought us out of the landof Egypt and into the house of bondage. Something in all thosesuperstitions because when you go out never know what dangers. Hangingon to a plank or astride of a beam for grim life, lifebelt round him,gulping salt water, and thats the last of his nibs till the sharkscatch hold of him. Do fish ever get seasick?Then you have a beautiful calm without a cloud, smooth sea, placid,crew and cargo in smithereens, Davy Jones locker, moon looking down sopeaceful. Not my fault, old cockalorum.A last lonely candle wandered up the sky from Mirus bazaar in searchof funds for Mercers hospital and broke, drooping, and shed a cluster ofviolet but one white stars. They floated, fell: they faded. The shepherdshour: the hour of folding: hour of tryst. From house to house, giving hiseverwelcome double knock, went the nine oclock postman, theglowworms lamp at his belt gleaming here and there through the laurelhedges. And among the five young trees a hoisted lintstock lit the lamp atLeahys terrace. By screens of lighted windows, by equal gardens a shrillvoice went crying, wailing: EVENING TELEGRAPH, STOP PRESS EDITION! RESULTOF THE GOLD CUP RACE! and from the door of Dignams house a boy ran outand called. Twittering the bat flew here, flew there. Far out over thesands the coming surf crept, grey. Howth settled for slumber, tired oflong days, of yumyum rhododendrons (he was old) and felt gladly the nightbreeze lift, ruffle his fell of ferns. He lay but opened a red eyeunsleeping, deep and slowly breathing, slumberous but awake. And far onKish bank the anchored lightship twinkled, winked at Mr Bloom.Life those chaps out there must have, stuck in the same spot. IrishLights board. Penance for their sins. Coastguards too. Rocket and breechesbuoy and lifeboat. Day we went out for the pleasure cruise in the ErinsKing, throwing them the sack of old papers. Bears in the zoo. Filthy trip.Drunkards out to shake up their livers. Puking overboard to feed theherrings. Nausea. And the women, fear of God in their faces. Milly,no sign of funk. Her blue scarf loose, laughing. Dont know what deathis at that age. And then their stomachs clean. But being lost they fear.When we hid behind the tree at Crumlin. I didnt want to. Mamma! Mamma!Babes in the wood. Frightening them with masks too. Throwing them upin the air to catch them. Ill murder you. Is it only half fun?Or children playing battle. Whole earnest. How can people aim guns ateach other. Sometimes they go off. Poor kids! Only troubles wildfireand nettlerash. Calomel purge I got her for that. After getting betterasleep with Molly. Very same teeth she has. What do they love?Another themselves? But the morning she chased her with the umbrella.Perhaps so as not to hurt. I felt her pulse. Ticking. Little handit was: now big. Dearest Papli. All that the hand says when youtouch. Loved to count my waistcoat buttons. Her first stays Iremember. Made me laugh to see. Little paps to begin with. Left oneis more sensitive, I think. Mine too. Nearer the heart? Paddingthemselves out if fat is in fashion. Her growing pains at night, calling,wakening me. Frightened she was when her nature came on her first.Poor child! Strange moment for the mother too. Brings back her girlhood.Gibraltar. Looking from Buena Vista. OHaras tower. The seabirdsscreaming. Old Barbary ape that gobbled all his family. Sundown,gunfire for the men to cross the lines. Looking out over the sea shetold me. Evening like this, but clear, no clouds. I always thought Idmarry a lord or a rich gentleman coming with a private yacht. BUENASNOCHES, SENORITA. EL HOMBRE AMA LA MUCHACHA HERMOSA. Why me? Becauseyou were so foreign from the others.Better not stick here all night like a limpet. This weather makes youdull. Must be getting on for nine by the light. Go home. Too late for LEAH,LILY OF KILLARNEY. No. Might be still up. Call to the hospital to see.Hope shes over. Long day Ive had. Martha, the bath, funeral, house ofKeyes, museum with those goddesses, Dedalus song. Then that bawler inBarney Kiernans. Got my own back there. Drunken ranters what I said abouthis God made him wince. Mistake to hit back. Or? No. Ought to go home andlaugh at themselves. Always want to be swilling in company. Afraid to bealone like a child of two. Suppose he hit me. Look at it other way round.Not so bad then. Perhaps not to hurt he meant. Three cheers for Israel.Three cheers for the sister-in-law he hawked about, three fangs in hermouth. Same style of beauty. Particularly nice old party for a cup of tea.The sister of the wife of the wild man of Borneo has just come to town.Imagine that in the early morning at close range. Everyone to his taste asMorris said when he kissed the cow. But Dignams put the boots on it.Houses of mourning so depressing because you never know. Anyhow shewants the money. Must call to those Scottish Widows as I promised. Strangename. Takes it for granted were going to pop off first. That widowon Monday was it outside Cramers that looked at me. Buried the poorhusband but progressing favourably on the premium. Her widows mite.Well? What do you expect her to do? Must wheedle her way along.Widower I hate to see. Looks so forlorn. Poor man OConnor wife and fivechildren poisoned by mussels here. The sewage. Hopeless. Some goodmatronly woman in a porkpie hat to mother him. Take him in tow, platterface and a large apron. Ladies grey flannelette bloomers, three shillingsa pair, astonishing bargain. Plain and loved, loved for ever, they say.Ugly: no woman thinks she is. Love, lie and be handsome for tomorrow wedie. See him sometimes walking about trying to find out who played thetrick. U. p: up. Fate that is. He, not me. Also a shop often noticed.Curse seems to dog it. Dreamt last night? Wait. Something confused. Shehad red slippers on. Turkish. Wore the breeches. Suppose she does? WouldI like her in pyjamas? Damned hard to answer. Nannettis gone. Mailboat.Near Holyhead by now. Must nail that ad of Keyess. Work Hynes andCrawford. Petticoats for Molly. She has something to put in them. Whatsthat? Might be money.Mr Bloom stooped and turned over a piece of paper on the strand. Hebrought it near his eyes and peered. Letter? No. Cant read. Better go.Better. Im tired to move. Page of an old copybook. All those holes andpebbles. Who could count them? Never know what you find. Bottle withstory of a treasure in it, thrown from a wreck. Parcels post. Childrenalways want to throw things in the sea. Trust? Bread cast on the waters.Whats this? Bit of stick.O! Exhausted that female has me. Not so young now. Will she comehere tomorrow? Wait for her somewhere for ever. Must come back.Murderers do. Will I?Mr Bloom with his stick gently vexed the thick sand at his foot. Writea message for her. Might remain. What?I.Some flatfoot tramp on it in the morning. Useless. Washed away. Tide comeshere. Saw a pool near her foot. Bend, see my face there, dark mirror,breathe on it, stirs. All these rocks with lines and scars and letters. O,those transparent! Besides they dont know. What is the meaning of thatother world. I called you naughty boy because I do not like.AM. A.No room. Let it go.Mr Bloom effaced the letters with his slow boot. Hopeless thing sand.Nothing grows in it. All fades. No fear of big vessels coming up here.Except Guinnesss barges. Round the Kish in eighty days. Done half bydesign.He flung his wooden pen away. The stick fell in silted sand, stuck.Now if you were trying to do that for a week on end you couldnt. Chance.Well never meet again. But it was lovely. Goodbye, dear. Thanks. Made mefeel so young.Short snooze now if I had. Must be near nine. Liverpool boat longgone.. Not even the smoke. And she can do the other. Did too. And Belfast.I wont go. Race there, race back to Ennis. Let him. Just close my eyes amoment. Wont sleep, though. Half dream. It never comes the same. Batagain. No harm in him. Just a few.O sweety all your little girlwhite up I saw dirty bracegirdle made medo love sticky we two naughty Grace darling she him half past the bed methim pike hoses frillies for Raoul de perfume your wife black hair heaveunder embon SENORITA young eyes Mulvey plump bubs me breadvan Winklered slippers she rusty sleep wander years of dreams return tail endAgendath swoony lovey showed me her next year in drawers return next inher next her next.A bat flew. Here. There. Here. Far in the grey a bell chimed. MrBloom with open mouth, his left boot sanded sideways, leaned, breathed.Just for a few    CUCKOO    CUCKOO    CUCKOO.The clock on the mantelpiece in the priests house cooed where CanonOHanlon and Father Conroy and the reverend John Hughes S. J. weretaking tea and sodabread and butter and fried mutton chops with catsupand talking about    CUCKOO    CUCKOO    CUCKOO.Because it was a little canarybird that came out of its little house totell the time that Gerty MacDowell noticed the time she was there becauseshe was as quick as anything about a thing like that, was Gerty MacDowell,and she noticed at once that that foreign gentleman that was sitting onthe rocks looking was    CUCKOO    CUCKOO    CUCKOO.    * * * * * * *Deshil Holles Eamus. Deshil Holles Eamus. Deshil Holles Eamus.Send us bright one, light one, Horhorn, quickening and wombfruit. Sendus bright one, light one, Horhorn, quickening and wombfruit. Send usbright one, light one, Horhorn, quickening and wombfruit.Hoopsa boyaboy hoopsa! Hoopsa boyaboy hoopsa! Hoopsa boyaboy hoopsa!Universally that persons acumen is esteemed very little perceptiveconcerning whatsoever matters are being held as most profitably by mortalswith sapience endowed to be studied who is ignorant of that which the mostin doctrine erudite and certainly by reason of that in them high mindsornament deserving of veneration constantly maintain when by generalconsent they affirm that other circumstances being equal by no exteriorsplendour is the prosperity of a nation more efficaciously asserted thanby the measure of how far forward may have progressed the tribute of itssolicitude for that proliferent continuance which of evils the original ifit be absent when fortunately present constitutes the certain sign ofomnipotent natures incorrupted benefaction. For who is there who anythingof some significance has apprehended but is conscious that that exteriorsplendour may be the surface of a downwardtending lutulent reality or onthe contrary anyone so is there unilluminated as not to perceive that asno natures boon can contend against the bounty of increase so it behovesevery most just citizen to become the exhortator and admonisher of hissemblables and to tremble lest what had in the past been by the nationexcellently commenced might be in the future not with similar excellenceaccomplished if an inverecund habit shall have gradually traduced thehonourable by ancestors transmitted customs to that thither of profunditythat that one was audacious excessively who would have the hardihood torise affirming that no more odious offence can for anyone be than tooblivious neglect to consign that evangel simultaneously command andpromise which on all mortals with prophecy of abundance or withdiminutions menace that exalted of reiteratedly procreating function everirrevocably enjoined?It is not why therefore we shall wonder if, as the best historians relate,among the Celts, who nothing that was not in its nature admirable admired,the art of medicine shall have been highly honoured. Not to speak ofhostels, leperyards, sweating chambers, plaguegraves, their greatestdoctors, the OShiels, the OHickeys, the OLees, have sedulously set downthe divers methods by which the sick and the relapsed found again healthwhether the malady had been the trembling withering or loose boyconnellflux. Certainly in every public work which in it anything of gravitycontains preparation should be with importance commensurate and thereforea plan was by them adopted (whether by having preconsidered or as thematuration of experience it is difficult in being said which thediscrepant opinions of subsequent inquirers are not up to the presentcongrued to render manifest) whereby maternity was so far from allaccident possibility removed that whatever care the patient in thatall hardest of woman hour chiefly required and not solely for thecopiously opulent but also for her who not being sufficiently moneyedscarcely and often not even scarcely could subsist valiantly and for aninconsiderable emolument was provided.To her nothing already then and thenceforward was anyway able to bemolestful for this chiefly felt all citizens except with proliferentmothers prosperity at all not to can be and as they had received eternitygods mortals generation to befit them her beholding, when the case was sohoving itself, parturient in vehicle thereward carrying desire immenseamong all one another was impelling on of her to be received into thatdomicile. O thing of prudent nation not merely in being seen but alsoeven in being related worthy of being praised that they her byanticipation went seeing mother, that she by them suddenly to be about tobe cherished had been begun she felt!Before born bliss babe had. Within womb won he worship. Whateverin that one case done commodiously done was. A couch by midwivesattended with wholesome food reposeful, cleanest swaddles as thoughforthbringing were now done and by wise foresight set: but to this no lessof what drugs there is need and surgical implements which are pertainingto her case not omitting aspect of all very distracting spectacles invarious latitudes by our terrestrial orb offered together with images,divine and human, the cogitation of which by sejunct females is totumescence conducive or eases issue in the high sunbright wellbuilt fairhome of mothers when, ostensibly far gone and reproductitive, it is comeby her thereto to lie in, her term up.Some man that wayfaring was stood by housedoor at nightsoncoming. Of Israels folk was that man that on earth wandering far hadfared. Stark ruth of man his errand that him lone led till that house.Of that house A. Horne is lord. Seventy beds keeps he there teemingmothers are wont that they lie for to thole and bring forth bairns hale soGods angel to Mary quoth. Watchers tway there walk, white sisters inward sleepless. Smarts they still, sickness soothing: in twelve moonsthrice an hundred. Truest bedthanes they twain are, for Horne holdingwariest ward.In ward wary the watcher hearing come that man mildhearted eftrising with swire ywimpled to him her gate wide undid. Lo, levin leapinglightens in eyeblink Irelands westward welkin. Full she drad that God theWreaker all mankind would fordo with water for his evil sins. Christsrood made she on breastbone and him drew that he would rathe infare underher thatch. That man her will wotting worthful went in Hornes house.Loth to irk in Hornes hall hat holding the seeker stood. On her stowhe ere was living with dear wife and lovesome daughter that then over landand seafloor nine years had long outwandered. Once her in townhithemeeting he to her bow had not doffed. Her to forgive now he craved withgood ground of her allowed that that of him swiftseen face, hers, so youngthen had looked. Light swift her eyes kindled, bloom of blushes his wordwinning.As her eyes then ongot his weeds swart therefor sorrow she feared.Glad after she was that ere adread was. Her he asked if OHare Doctortidings sent from far coast and she with grameful sigh him answered thatOHare Doctor in heaven was. Sad was the man that word to hear that himso heavied in bowels ruthful. All she there told him, ruing death forfriend so young, algate sore unwilling Gods rightwiseness to withsay. Shesaid that he had a fair sweet death through God His goodness withmasspriest to be shriven, holy housel and sick mens oil to his limbs. Theman then right earnest asked the nun of which death the dead man was diedand the nun answered him and said that he was died in Mona Island throughbellycrab three year agone come Childermas and she prayed to God theAllruthful to have his dear soul in his undeathliness. He heard her sadwords, in held hat sad staring. So stood they there both awhile in wanhopesorrowing one with other.Therefore, everyman, look to that last end that is thy death and thedust that gripeth on every man that is born of woman for as he came nakedforth from his mothers womb so naked shall he wend him at the last for togo as he came.The man that was come in to the house then spoke to thenursingwoman and he asked her how it fared with the woman that lay therein childbed. The nursingwoman answered him and said that that womanwas in throes now full three days and that it would be a hard birth unnethto bear but that now in a little it would be. She said thereto that shehad seen many births of women but never was none so hard as was thatwomans birth. Then she set it all forth to him for because she knew theman that time was had lived nigh that house. The man hearkened to herwords for he felt with wonder womens woe in the travail that they have ofmotherhood and he wondered to look on her face that was a fair face forany man to see but yet was she left after long years a handmaid. Ninetwelve bloodflows chiding her childless.And whiles they spake the door of the castle was opened and therenighed them a mickle noise as of many that sat there at meat. And therecame against the place as they stood a young learningknight yclept Dixon.And the traveller Leopold was couth to him sithen it had happed that theyhad had ado each with other in the house of misericord where thislearningknight lay by cause the traveller Leopold came there to be healedfor he was sore wounded in his breast by a spear wherewith a horrible anddreadful dragon was smitten him for which he did do make a salve ofvolatile salt and chrism as much as he might suffice. And he said now thathe should go in to that castle for to make merry with them that werethere. And the traveller Leopold said that he should go otherwhither forhe was a man of cautels and a subtile. Also the lady was of his avis andrepreved the learningknight though she trowed well that the traveller hadsaid thing that was false for his subtility. But the learningknight wouldnot hear say nay nor do her mandement ne have him in aught contrarious tohis list and he said how it was a marvellous castle. And the travellerLeopold went into the castle for to rest him for a space being sore oflimb after many marches environing in divers lands and sometime venery.And in the castle was set a board that was of the birchwood ofFinlandy and it was upheld by four dwarfmen of that country but theydurst not move more for enchantment. And on this board were frightfulswords and knives that are made in a great cavern by swinking demons outof white flames that they fix then in the horns of buffalos and stags thatthere abound marvellously. And there were vessels that are wrought bymagic of Mahound out of seasand and the air by a warlock with his breaththat he blases in to them like to bubbles. And full fair cheer and richwas on the board that no wight could devise a fuller ne richer. And therewas a vat of silver that was moved by craft to open in the which laystrange fishes withouten heads though misbelieving men nie that thisbe possible thing without they see it natheless they are so. And thesefishes lie in an oily water brought there from Portugal land becauseof the fatness that therein is like to the juices of the olivepress.And also it was a marvel to see in that castle how by magic they makea compost out of fecund wheatkidneys out of Chaldee that by aid ofcertain angry spirits that they do in to it swells up wondrously liketo a vast mountain. And they teach the serpents there to entwinethemselves up on long sticks out of the ground and of the scales ofthese serpents they brew out a brewage like to mead.And the learning knight let pour for childe Leopold a draught and halpthereto the while all they that were there drank every each. And childeLeopold did up his beaver for to pleasure him and took apertly somewhat inamity for he never drank no manner of mead which he then put by andanon full privily he voided the more part in his neighbour glass and hisneighbour nist not of this wile. And he sat down in that castle with themfor to rest him there awhile. Thanked be Almighty God.This meanwhile this good sister stood by the door and begged them atthe reverence of Jesu our alther liege Lord to leave their wassailing forthere was above one quick with child, a gentle dame, whose time hied fast.Sir Leopold heard on the upfloor cry on high and he wondered what cry thatit was whether of child or woman and I marvel, said he, that it be notcome or now. Meseems it dureth overlong. And he was ware and saw afranklin that hight Lenehan on that side the table that was older than anyof the tother and for that they both were knights virtuous in the oneemprise and eke by cause that he was elder he spoke to him full gently.But, said he, or it be long too she will bring forth by God His bounty andhave joy of her childing for she hath waited marvellous long. And thefranklin that had drunken said, Expecting each moment to be her next.Also he took the cup that stood tofore him for him needed never noneasking nor desiring of him to drink and, Now drink, said he, fullydelectably, and he quaffed as far as he might to their boths healthfor he was a passing good man of his lustiness. And sir Leopoldthat was the goodliest guest that ever sat in scholars hall andthat was the meekest man and the kindest that ever laid husbandlyhand under hen and that was the very truest knight of the worldone that ever did minion service to lady gentle pledged him courtly inthe cup. Womans woe with wonder pondering.Now let us speak of that fellowship that was there to the intent to bedrunken an they might. There was a sort of scholars along either side theboard, that is to wit, Dixon yclept junior of saint Mary Merciables withother his fellows Lynch and Madden, scholars of medicine, and the franklinthat hight Lenehan and one from Alba Longa, one Crotthers, and youngStephen that had mien of a frere that was at head of the board andCostello that men clepen Punch Costello all long of a mastery of himerewhile gested (and of all them, reserved young Stephen, he was the mostdrunken that demanded still of more mead) and beside the meek sirLeopold. But on young Malachi they waited for that he promised tohave come and such as intended to no goodness said how he had brokehis avow. And sir Leopold sat with them for he bore fast friendshipto sir Simon and to this his son young Stephen and for that his languorbecalmed him there after longest wanderings insomuch as they feastedhim for that time in the honourablest manner. Ruth red him, love ledon with will to wander, loth to leave.For they were right witty scholars. And he heard their aresouns eachgen other as touching birth and righteousness, young Madden maintainingthat put such case it were hard the wife to die (for so it had fallen outa matter of some year agone with a woman of Eblana in Hornes house thatnow was trespassed out of this world and the self night next before herdeath all leeches and pothecaries had taken counsel of her case). And theysaid farther she should live because in the beginning, they said, thewoman should bring forth in pain and wherefore they that were of thisimagination affirmed how young Madden had said truth for he had conscienceto let her die. And not few and of these was young Lynch were in doubtthat the world was now right evil governed as it was never other howbeitthe mean people believed it otherwise but the law nor his judges didprovide no remedy. A redress God grant. This was scant said but all criedwith one acclaim nay, by our Virgin Mother, the wife should live and thebabe to die. In colour whereof they waxed hot upon that head what withargument and what for their drinking but the franklin Lenehan was prompteach when to pour them ale so that at the least way mirth might not lack.Then young Madden showed all the whole affair and said how that she wasdead and how for holy religion sake by rede of palmer and bedesman and fora vow he had made to Saint Ultan of Arbraccan her goodman husband wouldnot let her death whereby they were all wondrous grieved. To whom youngStephen had these words following: Murmur, sirs, is eke oft among layfolk. Both babe and parent now glorify their Maker, the one in limbogloom, the other in purgefire. But, gramercy, what of those Godpossibledsouls that we nightly impossibilise, which is the sin against the HolyGhost, Very God, Lord and Giver of Life? For, sirs, he said, our lustis brief. We are means to those small creatures within us and naturehas other ends than we. Then said Dixon junior to Punch Costello wisthe what ends. But he had overmuch drunken and the best word he couldhave of him was that he would ever dishonest a woman whoso she wereor wife or maid or leman if it so fortuned him to be delivered of hisspleen of lustihead. Whereat Crotthers of Alba Longa sang youngMalachis praise of that beast the unicorn how once in the millenniumhe cometh by his horn, the other all this while, pricked forward withtheir jibes wherewith they did malice him, witnessing all and severalby saint Foutinus his engines that he was able to do any mannerof thing that lay in man to do. Thereat laughed they all rightjocundly only young Stephen and sir Leopold which never durst laughtoo open by reason of a strange humour which he would not bewray andalso for that he rued for her that bare whoso she might be or wheresoever.Then spake young Stephen orgulous of mother Church that would cast himout of her bosom, of law of canons, of Lilith, patron of abortions, of bignesswrought by wind of seeds of brightness or by potency of vampires mouth tomouth or, as Virgilius saith, by the influence of the occident or by the reekof moonflower or an she lie with a woman which her man has but lain with,EFFECTU SECUTO, or peradventure in her bath according to the opinions ofAverroes and Moses Maimonides. He said also how at the end of the secondmonth a human soul was infused and how in all our holy mother foldethever souls for Gods greater glory whereas that earthly mother which wasbut a dam to bear beastly should die by canon for so saith he that holdeththe fishermans seal, even that blessed Peter on which rock was holy churchfor all ages founded. All they bachelors then asked of sir Leopold would hein like case so jeopard her person as risk life to save life. A wariness ofmind he would answer as fitted all and, laying hand to jaw, he saiddissembling, as his wont was, that as it was informed him, who had everloved the art of physic as might a layman, and agreeing also with hisexperience of so seldomseen an accident it was good for that mother Churchbelike at one blow had birth and death pence and in such sort deliverly hescaped their questions. That is truth, pardy, said Dixon, and, or I err,a pregnant word. Which hearing young Stephen was a marvellous glad man andhe averred that he who stealeth from the poor lendeth to the Lord for hewas of a wild manner when he was drunken and that he was now in thattaking it appeared eftsoons.But sir Leopold was passing grave maugre his word by cause he stillhad pity of the terrorcausing shrieking of shrill women in their labourand as he was minded of his good lady Marion that had borne him an onlymanchild which on his eleventh day on live had died and no man of artcould save so dark is destiny. And she was wondrous stricken of heart forthat evil hap and for his burial did him on a fair corselet of lambswool, the flower of the flock, lest he might perish utterly and lieakeled (for it was then about the midst of the winter) and now SirLeopold that had of his body no manchild for an heir looked upon him hisfriends son and was shut up in sorrow for his forepassed happiness andas sad as he was that him failed a son of such gentle courage (for allaccounted him of real parts) so grieved he also in no less measure foryoung Stephen for that he lived riotously with those wastrels andmurdered his goods with whores.About that present time young Stephen filled all cups that stood emptyso as there remained but little mo if the prudenter had not shadowed theirapproach from him that still plied it very busily who, praying for theintentions of the sovereign pontiff, he gave them for a pledge the vicarof Christ which also as he said is vicar of Bray. Now drink we, quod he,of this mazer and quaff ye this mead which is not indeed parcel of my bodybut my souls bodiment. Leave ye fraction of bread to them that live bybread alone. Be not afeard neither for any want for this will comfort morethan the other will dismay. See ye here. And he showed them glisteringcoins of the tribute and goldsmith notes the worth of two pound nineteenshilling that he had, he said, for a song which he writ. They all admiredto see the foresaid riches in such dearth of money as was herebefore. Hiswords were then these as followeth: Know all men, he said, times ruinsbuild eternitys mansions. What means this? Desires wind blasts thethorntree but after it becomes from a bramblebush to be a rose upon therood of time. Mark me now. In womans womb word is made flesh but in thespirit of the maker all flesh that passes becomes the word that shall notpass away. This is the postcreation. OMNIS CARO AD TE VENIET. No questionbut her name is puissant who aventried the dear corse of our Agenbuyer,Healer and Herd, our mighty mother and mother most venerable andBernardus saith aptly that She hath an OMNIPOTENTIAM DEIPARAE SUPPLICEM,that is to wit, an almightiness of petition because she is the second Eveand she won us, saith Augustine too, whereas that other, our grandam,which we are linked up with by successive anastomosis of navelcordssold us all, seed, breed and generation, for a penny pippin. But hereis the matter now. Or she knew him, that second I say, and was butcreature of her creature, VERGINE MADRE, FIGLIA DI TUO FIGLIO, or sheknew him not and then stands she in the one denial or ignorancy withPeter Piscator who lives in the house that Jack built and with Josephthe joiner patron of the happy demise of all unhappy marriages, PARCEQUEM. LEO TAXIL NOUS A DIT QUE QUI LAVAIT MISE DANS CETTE FICHUE POSITIONCETAIT LE SACRE PIGEON, VENTRE DE DIEU! ENTWEDER transubstantiality ODERconsubstantiality but in no case subsubstantiality. And all cried outupon it for a very scurvy word. A pregnancy without joy, he said,a birth without pangs, a body without blemish, a belly without bigness.Let the lewd with faith and fervour worship. With will will we withstand,withsay.Hereupon Punch Costello dinged with his fist upon the board andwould sing a bawdy catch STABOO STABELLA about a wench that was put inpod of a jolly swashbuckler in Almany which he did straightways nowattack: THE FIRST THREE MONTHS SHE WAS NOT WELL, STABOO, whenhere nurse Quigley from the door angerly bid them hist ye shouldshame you nor was it not meet as she remembered them being her mind wasto have all orderly against lord Andrew came for because she was jealousthat no gasteful turmoil might shorten the honour of her guard. It was anancient and a sad matron of a sedate look and christian walking, in habitdun beseeming her megrims and wrinkled visage, nor did her hortative wantof it effect for incontinently Punch Costello was of them all embraidedand they reclaimed the churl with civil rudeness some and shaked him withmenace of blandishments others whiles they all chode with him, a murrainseize the dolt, what a devil he would be at, thou chuff, thou puny, thougot in peasestraw, thou losel, thou chitterling, thou spawn of a rebel,thou dykedropt, thou abortion thou, to shut up his drunken drool outof that like a curse of God ape, the good sir Leopold that had for hiscognisance the flower of quiet, margerain gentle, advising also thetimes occasion as most sacred and most worthy to be most sacred.In Hornes house rest should reign.To be short this passage was scarce by when Master Dixon of Mary inEccles, goodly grinning, asked young Stephen what was the reason why hehad not cided to take friars vows and he answered him obedience in thewomb, chastity in the tomb but involuntary poverty all his days. MasterLenehan at this made return that he had heard of those nefarious deeds andhow, as he heard hereof counted, he had besmirched the lily virtue of aconfiding female which was corruption of minors and they all intershowedit too, waxing merry and toasting to his fathership. But he said veryentirely it was clean contrary to their suppose for he was the eternalson and ever virgin. Thereat mirth grew in them the more and theyrehearsed to him his curious rite of wedlock for the disrobing anddeflowering of spouses, as the priests use in Madagascar island, sheto be in guise of white and saffron, her groom in white and grain, withburning of nard and tapers, on a bridebed while clerks sung kyriesand the anthem UT NOVETUR SEXUS OMNIS CORPORIS MYSTERIUM till she wasthere unmaided. He gave them then a much admirable hymen minim by thosedelicate poets Master John Fletcher and Master Francis Beaumont that isin their MAIDS TRAGEDY that was writ for a like twining of lovers: TOBED, TO BED was the burden of it to be played with accompanableconcent upon the virginals. An exquisite dulcet epithalame ofmost mollificative suadency for juveniles amatory whom the odoriferousflambeaus of the paranymphs have escorted to the quadrupedal prosceniumof connubial communion. Well met they were, said Master Dixon, joyed,but, harkee, young sir, better were they named Beau Mount and Lecher for,by my troth, of such a mingling much might come. Young Stephen saidindeed to his best remembrance they had but the one doxy between them andshe of the stews to make shift with in delights amorous for life ran veryhigh in those days and the custom of the country approved with it. Greaterlove than this, he said, no man hath that a man lay down his wife for hisfriend. Go thou and do likewise. Thus, or words to that effect, saithZarathustra, sometime regius professor of French letters to the universityof Oxtail nor breathed there ever that man to whom mankind was morebeholden. Bring a stranger within thy tower it will go hard but thou wilthave the secondbest bed. ORATE, FRATRES, PRO MEMETIPSO. And all the peopleshall say, Amen. Remember, Erin, thy generations and thy days of old, howthou settedst little by me and by my word and broughtedst in a stranger tomy gates to commit fornication in my sight and to wax fat and kick likeJeshurum. Therefore hast thou sinned against my light and hast made me,thy lord, to be the slave of servants. Return, return, Clan Milly: forgetme not, O Milesian. Why hast thou done this abomination before me thatthou didst spurn me for a merchant of jalaps and didst deny me to theRoman and to the Indian of dark speech with whom thy daughters did lieluxuriously? Look forth now, my people, upon the land of behest, evenfrom Horeb and from Nebo and from Pisgah and from the Horns ofHatten unto a land flowing with milk and money. But thou hast suckled mewith a bitter milk: my moon and my sun thou hast quenched for ever. Andthou hast left me alone for ever in the dark ways of my bitterness: andwith a kiss of ashes hast thou kissed my mouth. This tenebrosity ofthe interior, he proceeded to say, hath not been illumined by thewit of the septuagint nor so much as mentioned for the Orient fromon high Which brake hells gates visited a darkness that was foraneous.Assuefaction minorates atrocities (as Tully saith of his darling Stoics)and Hamlet his father showeth the prince no blister of combustion.The adiaphane in the noon of life is an Egypts plague which in thenights of prenativity and postmortemity is their most proper UBI andQUOMODO. And as the ends and ultimates of all things accord in somemean and measure with their inceptions and originals, that samemultiplicit concordance which leads forth growth from birth accomplishingby a retrogressive metamorphosis that minishing and ablation towardsthe final which is agreeable unto nature so is it with our subsolarbeing. The aged sisters draw us into life: we wail, batten, sport, clip,clasp, sunder, dwindle, die: over us dead they bend. First, saved fromwaters of old Nile, among bulrushes, a bed of fasciated wattles: at lastthe cavity of a mountain, an occulted sepulchre amid the conclamationof the hillcat and the ossifrage. And as no man knows the ubicityof his tumulus nor to what processes we shall thereby be ushered norwhether to Tophet or to Edenville in the like way is all hidden when wewould backward see from what region of remoteness the whatness of ourwhoness hath fetched his whenceness.Thereto Punch Costello roared out mainly ETIENNE CHANSON but heloudly bid them, lo, wisdom hath built herself a house, this vast majesticlongstablished vault, the crystal palace of the Creator, all in applepieorder, a penny for him who finds the pea.    BEHOLD THE MANSION REARED BY DEDAL JACK    SEE THE MALT STORED IN MANY A REFLUENT SACK,    IN THE PROUD CIRQUE OF JACKJOHNS BIVOUAC.A black crack of noise in the street here, alack, bawled back. Loud onleft Thor thundered: in anger awful the hammerhurler. Came now thestorm that hist his heart. And Master Lynch bade him have a care to floutand witwanton as the god self was angered for his hellprate and paganry.And he that had erst challenged to be so doughty waxed wan as they mightall mark and shrank together and his pitch that was before so haughtuplift was now of a sudden quite plucked down and his heart shook withinthe cage of his breast as he tasted the rumour of that storm. Then didsome mock and some jeer and Punch Costello fell hard again to his yalewhich Master Lenehan vowed he would do after and he was indeed but a wordand a blow on any the least colour. But the braggart boaster cried that anold Nobodaddy was in his cups it was muchwhat indifferent and he wouldnot lag behind his lead. But this was only to dye his desperation as cowedhe crouched in Hornes hall. He drank indeed at one draught to pluck up aheart of any grace for it thundered long rumblingly over all the heavensso that Master Madden, being godly certain whiles, knocked him on his ribsupon that crack of doom and Master Bloom, at the braggarts side, spoke tohim calming words to slumber his great fear, advertising how it was noother thing but a hubbub noise that he heard, the discharge of fluid fromthe thunderhead, look you, having taken place, and all of the order of anatural phenomenon.But was young Boasthards fear vanquished by Calmers words? No,for he had in his bosom a spike named Bitterness which could not by wordsbe done away. And was he then neither calm like the one nor godly like theother? He was neither as much as he would have liked to be either. Butcould he not have endeavoured to have found again as in his youth thebottle Holiness that then he lived withal? Indeed no for Grace was notthere to find that bottle. Heard he then in that clap the voice of the godBringforth or, what Calmer said, a hubbub of Phenomenon? Heard? Why,he could not but hear unless he had plugged him up the tube Understanding(which he had not done). For through that tube he saw that he was in theland of Phenomenon where he must for a certain one day die as he was likethe rest too a passing show. And would he not accept to die like the restand pass away? By no means would he though he must nor would he makemore shows according as men do with wives which Phenomenon hascommanded them to do by the book Law. Then wotted he nought of that otherland which is called Believe-on-Me, that is the land of promise whichbehoves to the king Delightful and shall be for ever where there is nodeath and no birth neither wiving nor mothering at which all shall come asmany as believe on it? Yes, Pious had told him of that land and Chaste hadpointed him to the way but the reason was that in the way he fell in witha certain whore of an eyepleasing exterior whose name, she said, isBird-in-the-Hand and she beguiled him wrongways from the true path byher flatteries that she said to him as, Ho, you pretty man, turn asidehither and I will show you a brave place, and she lay at him soflatteringly that she had him in her grot which is named Two-in-the-Bushor, by some learned, Carnal Concupiscence.This was it what all that company that sat there at commons in Manseof Mothers the most lusted after and if they met with this whoreBird-in-the-Hand (which was within all foul plagues, monsters and awicked devil) they would strain the last but they would make at her andknow her. For regarding Believe-on-Me they said it was nought else butnotion and they could conceive no thought of it for, first,Two-in-the-Bush whither she ticed them was the very goodliest grot andin it were four pillows on which were four tickets with these wordsprinted on them, Pickaback and Topsyturvy and Shameface and Cheekby Jowl and, second, for that foul plague Allpox and the monstersthey cared not for them for Preservative had given them a stoutshield of oxengut and, third, that they might take no hurt neitherfrom Offspring that was that wicked devil by virtue of this sameshield which was named Killchild. So were they all in their blindfancy, Mr Cavil and Mr Sometimes Godly, Mr Ape Swillale, Mr FalseFranklin, Mr Dainty Dixon, Young Boasthard and Mr Cautious Calmer.Wherein, O wretched company, were ye all deceived for that was the voiceof the god that was in a very grievous rage that he would presently lifthis arm up and spill their souls for their abuses and their spillings doneby them contrariwise to his word which forth to bring brenningly biddeth.So Thursday sixteenth June Patk. Dignam laid in clay of an apoplexyand after hard drought, please God, rained, a bargeman coming in by watera fifty mile or thereabout with turf saying the seed wont sprout, fieldsathirst, very sadcoloured and stunk mightily, the quags and tofts too.Hard to breathe and all the young quicks clean consumed without sprinklethis long while back as no man remembered to be without. The rosy buds allgone brown and spread out blobs and on the hills nought but dry flag andfaggots that would catch at first fire. All the world saying, for aughtthey knew, the big wind of last February a year that did havoc the land sopitifully a small thing beside this barrenness. But by and by, as said,this evening after sundown, the wind sitting in the west, biggish swollenclouds to be seen as the night increased and the weatherwise poringup at them and some sheet lightnings at first and after, past ten ofthe clock, one great stroke with a long thunder and in a brace of shakesall scamper pellmell within door for the smoking shower, the men makingshelter for their straws with a clout or kerchief, womenfolkskipping off with kirtles catched up soon as the pour came. In Ely place,Baggot street, Dukes lawn, thence through Merrion green up to Hollesstreet a swash of water flowing that was before bonedry and not onechair or coach or fiacre seen about but no more crack after that first.Over against the Rt. Hon. Mr Justice Fitzgibbons door (that isto sit with Mr Healy the lawyer upon the college lands) Mal. Mulligana gentlemans gentleman that had but come from Mr Moores thewriters (that was a papish but is now, folk say, a good Williamite)chanced against Alec. Bannon in a cut bob (which are now in with dancecloaks of Kendal green) that was new got to town from Mullingar withthe stage where his coz and Mal Ms brother will stay a month yet tillSaint Swithin and asks what in the earth he does there, he bound home andhe to Andrew Hornes being stayed for to crush a cup of wine, so he said,but would tell him of a skittish heifer, big of her age and beef to theheel, and all this while poured with rain and so both together on toHornes. There Leop. Bloom of Crawfords journal sitting snug with a coveyof wags, likely brangling fellows, Dixon jun., scholar of my lady ofMercys, Vin. Lynch, a Scots fellow, Will. Madden, T. Lenehan, very sadabout a racer he fancied and Stephen D. Leop. Bloom there for a languor hehad but was now better, be having dreamed tonight a strange fancy of hisdame Mrs Moll with red slippers on in a pair of Turkey trunks which isthought by those in ken to be for a change and Mistress Purefoy there,that got in through pleading her belly, and now on the stools, poor body,two days past her term, the midwives sore put to it and cant deliver,she queasy for a bowl of riceslop that is a shrewd drier up of theinsides and her breath very heavy more than good and should be abullyboy from the knocks, they say, but God give her soon issue.Tis her ninth chick to live, I hear, and Lady day bit off her lastchicks nails that was then a twelvemonth and with other threeall breastfed that died written out in a fair hand in the kingsbible. Her hub fifty odd and a methodist but takes the sacrament and is tobe seen any fair sabbath with a pair of his boys off Bullock harbourdapping on the sound with a heavybraked reel or in a punt he has trailingfor flounder and pollock and catches a fine bag, I hear. In sum aninfinite great fall of rain and all refreshed and will much increase theharvest yet those in ken say after wind and water fire shall come for aprognostication of Malachis almanac (and I hear that Mr Russell has donea prophetical charm of the same gist out of the Hindustanish for hisfarmers gazette) to have three things in all but this a mere fetchwithout bottom of reason for old crones and bairns yet sometimes they arefound in the right guess with their queerities no telling how.With this came up Lenehan to the feet of the table to say how theletter was in that nights gazette and he made a show to find it about him(for he swore with an oath that he had been at pains about it) but onStephens persuasion he gave over the search and was bidden to sit near bywhich he did mighty brisk. He was a kind of sport gentleman that went fora merryandrew or honest pickle and what belonged of women, horseflesh orhot scandal he had it pat. To tell the truth he was mean in fortunes andfor the most part hankered about the coffeehouses and low taverns withcrimps, ostlers, bookies, Pauls men, runners, flatcaps, waistcoateers,ladies of the bagnio and other rogues of the game or with a chanceablecatchpole or a tipstaff often at nights till broad day of whom he pickedup between his sackpossets much loose gossip. He took his ordinary at aboilingcooks and if he had but gotten into him a mess of broken victualsor a platter of tripes with a bare tester in his purse he could alwaysbring himself off with his tongue, some randy quip he had from a punk orwhatnot that every mothers son of them would burst their sides.The other, Costello that is, hearing this talk asked was it poetryor a tale. Faith, no, he says, Frank (that was his name), tis allabout Kerry cows that are to be butchered along of the plague.But they can go hang, says he with a wink, for me with their bully beef,a pox on it. Theres as good fish in this tin as ever came out of it andvery friendly he offered to take of some salty sprats that stood by whichhe had eyed wishly in the meantime and found the place which was indeedthe chief design of his embassy as he was sharpset. MORT AUX VACHES, saysFrank then in the French language that had been indentured to abrandyshipper that has a winelodge in Bordeaux and he spoke French like agentleman too. From a child this Frank had been a donought that hisfather, a headborough, who could ill keep him to school to learn hisletters and the use of the globes, matriculated at the university to studythe mechanics but he took the bit between his teeth like a raw colt andwas more familiar with the justiciary and the parish beadle than with hisvolumes. One time he would be a playactor, then a sutler or a welsher,then nought would keep him from the bearpit and the cocking main, then hewas for the ocean sea or to hoof it on the roads with the romany folk,kidnapping a squires heir by favour of moonlight or fecking maids linenor choking chicken behind a hedge. He had been off as many times as a cathas lives and back again with naked pockets as many more to his father theheadborough who shed a pint of tears as often as he saw him. What, saysMr Leopold with his hands across, that was earnest to know the drift ofit, will they slaughter all? I protest I saw them but this day morninggoing to the Liverpool boats, says he. I can scarce believe tis so bad,says he. And he had experience of the like brood beasts and of springers,greasy hoggets and wether wool, having been some years before actuary forMr Joseph Cuffe, a worthy salesmaster that drove his trade for live stockand meadow auctions hard by Mr Gavin Lows yard in Prussia street.I question with you there, says he. More like tis the hoose orthe timber tongue. Mr Stephen, a little moved but very handsomelytold him no such matter and that he had dispatches from the emperorschief tailtickler thanking him for the hospitality, that wassending over Doctor Rinderpest, the bestquoted cowcatcher in allMuscovy, with a bolus or two of physic to take the bull bythe horns. Come, come, says Mr Vincent, plain dealing. Hell find himselfon the horns of a dilemma if he meddles with a bull thats Irish, says he.Irish by name and irish by nature, says Mr Stephen, and he sent the alepurling about, an Irish bull in an English chinashop. I conceive you, saysMr Dixon. It is that same bull that was sent to our island by farmerNicholas, the bravest cattlebreeder of them all, with an emeraldring in his nose. True for you, says Mr Vincent cross the table,and a bullseye into the bargain, says he, and a plumper and a portlierbull, says he, never shit on shamrock. He had horns galore, a coat ofcloth of gold and a sweet smoky breath coming out of his nostrils sothat the women of our island, leaving doughballs and rollingpins,followed after him hanging his bulliness in daisychains.What for that, says Mr Dixon, but before he came over farmerNicholas that was a eunuch had him properly gelded by a college of doctorswho were no better off than himself. So be off now, says he, and do all mycousin german the lord Harry tells you and take a farmers blessing, andwith that he slapped his posteriors very soundly. But the slap and theblessing stood him friend, says Mr Vincent, for to make up he taught him atrick worth two of the other so that maid, wife, abbess and widow to thisday affirm that they would rather any time of the month whisper in his earin the dark of a cowhouse or get a lick on the nape from his long holytongue than lie with the finest strapping young ravisher in the fourfields of all Ireland. Another then put in his word: And they dressed him,says he, in a point shift and petticoat with a tippet and girdle andruffles on his wrists and clipped his forelock and rubbed him all overwith spermacetic oil and built stables for him at every turn of theroad with a gold manger in each full of the best hay in the marketso that he could doss and dung to his hearts content. By this timethe father of the faithful (for so they called him) was grown soheavy that he could scarce walk to pasture. To remedy which ourcozening dames and damsels brought him his fodder in their apronlapsand as soon as his belly was full he would rear up on his hind uartersto show their ladyships a mystery and roar and bellow out of him in bullslanguage and they all after him. Ay, says another, and so pampered was hethat he would suffer nought to grow in all the land but green grass forhimself (for that was the only colour to his mind) and there was a boardput up on a hillock in the middle of the island with a printed notice,saying: By the Lord Harry, Green is the grass that grows on the ground.And, says Mr Dixon, if ever he got scent of a cattleraider in Roscommonor the wilds of Connemara or a husbandman in Sligo that was sowingas much as a handful of mustard or a bag of rapeseed out hed runamok over half the countryside rooting up with his horns whateverwas planted and all by lord Harrys orders. There was bad blood betweenthem at first, says Mr Vincent, and the lord Harry called farmerNicholas all the old Nicks in the world and an old whoremaster thatkept seven trulls in his house and Ill meddle in his matters,says he. Ill make that animal smell hell, says he, with the helpof that good pizzle my father left me. But one evening, says MrDixon, when the lord Harry was cleaning his royal pelt to go to dinnerafter winning a boatrace (he had spade oars for himself but the first ruleof the course was that the others were to row with pitchforks)he discovered in himself a wonderful likeness to a bull and on pickingup a blackthumbed chapbook that he kept in the pantry he found sureenough that he was a lefthanded descendant of the famous champion bullof the Romans, BOS BOVUM, which is good bog Latin for boss of theshow. After that, says Mr Vincent, the lord Harry put his head intoa cows drinkingtrough in the presence of all his courtiers andpulling it out again told them all his new name. Then, with the waterrunning off him, he got into an old smock and skirt that hadbelonged to his grandmother and bought a grammar of the bullslanguage to study but he could never learn a word of it except the firstpersonal pronoun which he copied out big and got off by heart and if everhe went out for a walk he filled his pockets with chalk to write it uponwhat took his fancy, the side of a rock or a teahouse table or a bale ofcotton or a corkfloat. In short, he and the bull of Ireland were soon asfast friends as an arse and a shirt. They were, says Mr Stephen, and theend was that the men of the island seeing no help was toward, as theungrate women were all of one mind, made a wherry raft, loaded themselvesand their bundles of chattels on shipboard, set all masts erect, mannedthe yards, sprang their luff, heaved to, spread three sheets in the wind,put her head between wind and water, weighed anchor, ported her helm, ranup the jolly Roger, gave three times three, let the bullgine run, pushedoff in their bumboat and put to sea to recover the main of America.Which was the occasion, says Mr Vincent, of the composing by a boatswainof that rollicking chanty:  --POPE PETERS BUT A PISSABED.    MANS A MAN FOR A THAT.Our worthy acquaintance Mr Malachi Mulligan now appeared in the doorwayas the students were finishing their apologue accompanied with a friendwhom he had just rencountered, a young gentleman, his name Alec Bannon,who had late come to town, it being his intention to buy a colour or acornetcy in the fencibles and list for the wars. Mr Mulligan was civilenough to express some relish of it all the more as it jumped with aproject of his own for the cure of the very evil that had been touched on.Whereat he handed round to the company a set of pasteboard cards which hehad had printed that day at Mr Quinnells bearing a legend printed in fairitalics: MR MALACHI MULLIGAN. FERTILISER AND INCUBATOR. LAMBAY ISLAND. Hisproject, as he went on to expound, was to withdraw from the round of idlepleasures such as form the chief business of sir Fopling Popinjay and sirMilksop Quidnunc in town and to devote himself to the noblest task forwhich our bodily organism has been framed. Well, let us hear of it, goodmy friend, said Mr Dixon. I make no doubt it smacks of wenching. Come, beseated, both. Tis as cheap sitting as standing. Mr Mulligan accepted ofthe invitation and, expatiating upon his design, told his hearers that hehad been led into this thought by a consideration of the causes ofsterility, both the inhibitory and the prohibitory, whether the inhibitionin its turn were due to conjugal vexations or to a parsimony of thebalance as well as whether the prohibition proceeded from defectscongenital or from proclivities acquired. It grieved him plaguily, hesaid, to see the nuptial couch defrauded of its dearest pledges: and toreflect upon so many agreeable females with rich jointures, a prey to thevilest bonzes, who hide their flambeau under a bushel in an uncongenialcloister or lose their womanly bloom in the embraces of some unaccountablemuskin when they might multiply the inlets of happiness, sacrificing theinestimable jewel of their sex when a hundred pretty fellows wereat hand to caress, this, he assured them, made his heart weep.To curb this inconvenient (which he concluded due to a suppressionof latent heat), having advised with certain counsellors of worthand inspected into this matter, he had resolved to purchase in feesimple for ever the freehold of Lambay island from its holder,lord Talbot de Malahide, a Tory gentleman of note much in favour with ourascendancy party. He proposed to set up there a national fertilising farmto be named OMPHALOS with an obelisk hewn and erected after the fashion ofEgypt and to offer his dutiful yeoman services for the fecundation of anyfemale of what grade of life soever who should there direct to him withthe desire of fulfilling the functions of her natural. Money was noobject, he said, nor would he take a penny for his pains. The poorestkitchenwench no less than the opulent lady of fashion, if so be theirconstructions and their tempers were warm persuaders for their petitions,would find in him their man. For his nutriment he shewed how he wouldfeed himself exclusively upon a diet of savoury tubercles and fish andconeys there, the flesh of these latter prolific rodents being highlyrecommended for his purpose, both broiled and stewed with a blade ofmace and a pod or two of capsicum chillies. After this homily which hedelivered with much warmth of asseveration Mr Mulligan in a trice put offfrom his hat a kerchief with which he had shielded it. They both, itseems, had been overtaken by the rain and for all their mending their pacehad taken water, as might be observed by Mr Mulligans smallclothes of ahodden grey which was now somewhat piebald. His project meanwhile wasvery favourably entertained by his auditors and won hearty eulogies fromall though Mr Dixon of Marys excepted to it, asking with a finicking airdid he purpose also to carry coals to Newcastle. Mr Mulligan however madecourt to the scholarly by an apt quotation from the classics which, asit dwelt upon his memory, seemed to him a sound and tasteful support ofhis contention: TALIS AC TANTA DEPRAVATIO HUJUS SECULI, O QUIRITES, UTMATRESFAMILIARUM NOSTRAE LASCIVAS CUJUSLIBET SEMIVIRI LIBICI TITILLATIONESTESTIBUS PONDEROSIS ATQUE EXCELSIS ERECTIONIBUS CENTURIONUM ROMANORUMMAGNOPERE ANTEPONUNT, while for those of ruder wit he drove home hispoint by analogies of the animal kingdom more suitable to their stomach,the buck and doe of the forest glade, the farmyard drake and duck.Valuing himself not a little upon his elegance, being indeed a properman of person, this talkative now applied himself to his dress withanimadversions of some heat upon the sudden whimsy of the atmosphericswhile the company lavished their encomiums upon the project he hadadvanced. The young gentleman, his friend, overjoyed as he was at apassage that had late befallen him, could not forbear to tell ithis nearest neighbour. Mr Mulligan, now perceiving the table, asked forwhom were those loaves and fishes and, seeing the stranger, he made hima civil bow and said, Pray, sir, was you in need of any professionalassistance we could give? Who, upon his offer, thanked him very heartily,though preserving his proper distance, and replied that he was comethere about a lady, now an inmate of Hornes house, that was in aninteresting condition, poor body, from womans woe (and here he fetcheda deep sigh) to know if her happiness had yet taken place. Mr Dixon,to turn the table, took on to ask of Mr Mulligan himself whether hisincipient ventripotence, upon which he rallied him, betokened anovoblastic gestation in the prostatic utricle or male womb or was due,as with the noted physician, Mr Austin Meldon, to a wolf in the stomach.For answer Mr Mulligan, in a gale of laughter at his smalls,smote himself bravely below the diaphragm, exclaiming with anadmirable droll mimic of Mother Grogan (the most excellent creature of hersex though tis pity shes a trollop): Theres a belly that never bore abastard. This was so happy a conceit that it renewed the storm of mirthand threw the whole room into the most violent agitations of delight. Thespry rattle had run on in the same vein of mimicry but for some larumin the antechamber.Here the listener who was none other than the Scotch student, a littlefume of a fellow, blond as tow, congratulated in the liveliest fashion withthe young gentleman and, interrupting the narrative at a salient point,having desired his visavis with a polite beck to have the obligingness to passhim a flagon of cordial waters at the same time by a questioning poise of thehead (a whole century of polite breeding had not achieved so nice a gesture)to which was united an equivalent but contrary balance of the bottle askedthe narrator as plainly as was ever done in words if he might treat him witha cup of it. MAIS BIEN SUR, noble stranger, said he cheerily, ET MILLECOMPLIMENTS. That you may and very opportunely. There wanted nothingbut this cup to crown my felicity. But, gracious heaven, was I left with but acrust in my wallet and a cupful of water from the well, my God, I wouldaccept of them and find it in my heart to kneel down upon the ground andgive thanks to the powers above for the happiness vouchsafed me by theGiver of good things. With these words he approached the goblet to his lips,took a complacent draught of the cordial, slicked his hair and, opening hisbosom, out popped a locket that hung from a silk riband, that very picturewhich he had cherished ever since her hand had wrote therein. Gazingupon those features with a world of tenderness, Ah, Monsieur, he said, hadyou but beheld her as I did with these eyes at that affecting instant with herdainty tucker and her new coquette cap (a gift for her feastday as she toldme prettily) in such an artless disorder, of so melting a tenderness, pon myconscience, even you, Monsieur, had been impelled by generous nature todeliver yourself wholly into the hands of such an enemy or to quit the fieldfor ever. I declare, I was never so touched in all my life. God, I thank thee,as the Author of my days! Thrice happy will he be whom so amiable acreature will bless with her favours. A sigh of affection gave eloquence tothese words and, having replaced the locket in his bosom, he wiped his eyeand sighed again. Beneficent Disseminator of blessings to all Thy creatures,how great and universal must be that sweetest of Thy tyrannies which canhold in thrall the free and the bond, the simple swain and the polishedcoxcomb, the lover in the heyday of reckless passion and the husband ofmaturer years. But indeed, sir, I wander from the point. How mingled andimperfect are all our sublunary joys. Maledicity! he exclaimed in anguish.Would to God that foresight had but remembered me to take my cloakalong! I could weep to think of it. Then, though it had poured sevenshowers, we were neither of us a penny the worse. But beshrew me, hecried, clapping hand to his forehead, tomorrow will be a new day and,thousand thunders, I know of a MARCHAND DE CAPOTES, Monsieur Poyntz,from whom I can have for a livre as snug a cloak of the French fashion asever kept a lady from wetting. Tut, tut! cries Le Fecondateur, tripping in,my friend Monsieur Moore, that most accomplished traveller (I have justcracked a half bottle AVEC LUI in a circle of the best wits of the town),is my authority that in Cape Horn, VENTRE BICHE, they have a rain that willwet through any, even the stoutest cloak. A drenching of that violence, hetells me, SANS BLAGUE, has sent more than one luckless fellow in good earnestposthaste to another world. Pooh! A LIVRE! cries Monsieur Lynch. Theclumsy things are dear at a sou. One umbrella, were it no bigger than afairy mushroom, is worth ten such stopgaps. No woman of any wit wouldwear one. My dear Kitty told me today that she would dance in a delugebefore ever she would starve in such an ark of salvation for, as shereminded me (blushing piquantly and whispering in my ear though therewas none to snap her words but giddy butterflies), dame Nature, by thedivine blessing, has implanted it in our hearts and it has become ahousehold word that IL Y A DEUX CHOSES for which the innocence of ouroriginal garb, in other circumstances a breach of the proprieties, is thefittest, nay, the only garment. The first, said she (and here my prettyphilosopher, as I handed her to her tilbury, to fix my attention, gentlytipped with her tongue the outer chamber of my ear), the first is abath ... But at this point a bell tinkling in the hall cut short adiscourse which promised so bravely for the enrichment of our store ofknowledge.Amid the general vacant hilarity of the assembly a bell rang and,while all were conjecturing what might be the cause, Miss Callan enteredand, having spoken a few words in a low tone to young Mr Dixon, retiredwith a profound bow to the company. The presence even for a momentamong a party of debauchees of a woman endued with every quality ofmodesty and not less severe than beautiful refrained the humourous sallieseven of the most licentious but her departure was the signal for an outbreakof ribaldry. Strike me silly, said Costello, a low fellow who was fuddled. Amonstrous fine bit of cowflesh! Ill be sworn she has rendezvoused you.What, you dog? Have you a way with them? Gads bud, immensely so, saidMr Lynch. The bedside manner it is that they use in the Mater hospice.Demme, does not Doctor OGargle chuck the nuns there under the chin. AsI look to be saved I had it from my Kitty who has been wardmaid there anytime these seven months. Lawksamercy, doctor, cried the young blood inthe primrose vest, feigning a womanish simper and with immodestsquirmings of his body, how you do tease a body! Drat the man! Bless me,Im all of a wibbly wobbly. Why, youre as bad as dear little FatherCantekissem, that you are! May this pot of four half choke me, criedCostello, if she aint in the family way. I knows a lady whats got a whiteswelling quick as I claps eyes on her. The young surgeon, however, roseand begged the company to excuse his retreat as the nurse had just theninformed him that he was needed in the ward. Merciful providence hadbeen pleased to put a period to the sufferings of the lady who was ENCEINTEwhich she had borne with a laudable fortitude and she had given birth to abouncing boy. I want patience, said he, with those who, without wit toenliven or learning to instruct, revile an ennobling profession which, savingthe reverence due to the Deity, is the greatest power for happiness upon theearth. I am positive when I say that if need were I could produce a cloud ofwitnesses to the excellence of her noble exercitations which, so far frombeing a byword, should be a glorious incentive in the human breast. Icannot away with them. What? Malign such an one, the amiable MissCallan, who is the lustre of her own sex and the astonishment of ours? Andat an instant the most momentous that can befall a puny child of clay?Perish the thought! I shudder to think of the future of a race where theseeds of such malice have been sown and where no right reverence isrendered to mother and maid in house of Horne. Having delivered himselfof this rebuke he saluted those present on the by and repaired to the door.A murmur of approval arose from all and some were for ejecting the lowsoaker without more ado, a design which would have been effected norwould he have received more than his bare deserts had he not abridged histransgression by affirming with a horrid imprecation (for he swore a roundhand) that he was as good a son of the true fold as ever drew breath. Stapmy vitals, said he, them was always the sentiments of honest Frank Costellowhich I was bred up most particular to honour thy father and thy motherthat had the best hand to a rolypoly or a hasty pudding as you ever see whatI always looks back on with a loving heart.To revert to Mr Bloom who, after his first entry, had been consciousof some impudent mocks which he however had borne with as being thefruits of that age upon which it is commonly charged that it knows not pity.The young sparks, it is true, were as full of extravagancies as overgrownchildren: the words of their tumultuary discussions were difficultlyunderstood and not often nice: their testiness and outrageous MOTS weresuch that his intellects resiled from: nor were they scrupulously sensible ofthe proprieties though their fund of strong animal spirits spoke in theirbehalf. But the word of Mr Costello was an unwelcome language for himfor he nauseated the wretch that seemed to him a cropeared creature of amisshapen gibbosity, born out of wedlock and thrust like a crookbacktoothed and feet first into the world, which the dint of the surgeons pliersin his skull lent indeed a colour to, so as to put him in thought of thatmissing link of creations chain desiderated by the late ingenious MrDarwin. It was now for more than the middle span of our allotted yearsthat he had passed through the thousand vicissitudes of existence and, beingof a wary ascendancy and self a man of rare forecast, he had enjoined hisheart to repress all motions of a rising choler and, by intercepting them withthe readiest precaution, foster within his breast that plenitude of sufferancewhich base minds jeer at, rash judgers scorn and all find tolerable and buttolerable. To those who create themselves wits at the cost of femininedelicacy (a habit of mind which he never did hold with) to them he wouldconcede neither to bear the name nor to herit the tradition of a properbreeding: while for such that, having lost all forbearance, can lose no more,there remained the sharp antidote of experience to cause their insolency tobeat a precipitate and inglorious retreat. Not but what he could feel withmettlesome youth which, caring nought for the mows of dotards or thegruntlings of the severe, is ever (as the chaste fancy of the Holy Writerexpresses it) for eating of the tree forbid it yet not so far forth as topretermit humanity upon any condition soever towards a gentlewomanwhen she was about her lawful occasions. To conclude, while from thesisters words he had reckoned upon a speedy delivery he was, however, itmust be owned, not a little alleviated by the intelligence that the issue soauspicated after an ordeal of such duress now testified once more to themercy as well as to the bounty of the Supreme Being.Accordingly he broke his mind to his neighbour, saying that, toexpress his notion of the thing, his opinion (who ought not perchance toexpress one) was that one must have a cold constitution and a frigid geniusnot to be rejoiced by this freshest news of the fruition of her confinementsince she had been in such pain through no fault of hers. The dressy youngblade said it was her husbands that put her in that expectation or at leastit ought to be unless she were another Ephesian matron. I must acquaint you,said Mr Crotthers, clapping on the table so as to evoke a resonant commentof emphasis, old Glory Allelujurum was round again today, an elderly manwith dundrearies, preferring through his nose a request to have word ofWilhelmina, my life, as he calls her. I bade him hold himself in readiness forthat the event would burst anon. Slife, Ill be round with you. I cannot butextol the virile potency of the old bucko that could still knock another childout of her. All fell to praising of it, each after his own fashion, though thesame young blade held with his former view that another than her conjugialhad been the man in the gap, a clerk in orders, a linkboy (virtuous) or anitinerant vendor of articles needed in every household. Singular, communedthe guest with himself, the wonderfully unequal faculty of metempsychosispossessed by them, that the puerperal dormitory and the dissecting theatreshould be the seminaries of such frivolity, that the mere acquisition ofacademic titles should suffice to transform in a pinch of time these votariesof levity into exemplary practitioners of an art which most men anywiseeminent have esteemed the noblest. But, he further added, it is mayhap torelieve the pentup feelings that in common oppress them for I have morethan once observed that birds of a feather laugh together.But with what fitness, let it be asked of the noble lord, his patron, hasthis alien, whom the concession of a gracious prince has admitted to civicrights, constituted himself the lord paramount of our internal polity? Whereis now that gratitude which loyalty should have counselled? During therecent war whenever the enemy had a temporary advantage with hisgranados did this traitor to his kind not seize that moment to discharge hispiece against the empire of which he is a tenant at will while he trembled forthe security of his four per cents? Has he forgotten this as he forgets allbenefits received? Or is it that from being a deluder of others he has becomeat last his own dupe as he is, if report belie him not, his own and his onlyenjoyer? Far be it from candour to violate the bedchamber of a respectablelady, the daughter of a gallant major, or to cast the most distant reflectionsupon her virtue but if he challenges attention there (as it was indeed highlyhis interest not to have done) then be it so. Unhappy woman, she has beentoo long and too persistently denied her legitimate prerogative to listen tohis objurgations with any other feeling than the derision of the desperate.He says this, a censor of morals, a very pelican in his piety, who did notscruple, oblivious of the ties of nature, to attempt illicit intercourse witha female domestic drawn from the lowest strata of society! Nay, had thehussys scouringbrush not been her tutelary angel, it had gone with her ashard as with Hagar, the Egyptian! In the question of the grazing lands hispeevish asperity is notorious and in Mr Cuffes hearing brought upon himfrom an indignant rancher a scathing retort couched in terms asstraightforward as they were bucolic. It ill becomes him to preach thatgospel. Has he not nearer home a seedfield that lies fallow for the want ofthe ploughshare? A habit reprehensible at puberty is second nature and anopprobrium in middle life. If he must dispense his balm of Gilead innostrums and apothegms of dubious taste to restore to health a generationof unfledged profligates let his practice consist better with the doctrinesthat now engross him. His marital breast is the repository of secrets whichdecorum is reluctant to adduce. The lewd suggestions of some faded beautymay console him for a consort neglected and debauched but this newexponent of morals and healer of ills is at his best an exotic tree which,when rooted in its native orient, throve and flourished and was abundant inbalm but, transplanted to a clime more temperate, its roots have lost theirquondam vigour while the stuff that comes away from it is stagnant, acidand inoperative.The news was imparted with a circumspection recalling theceremonial usage of the Sublime Porte by the second female infirmarian tothe junior medical officer in residence, who in his turn announced to thedelegation that an heir had been born, When he had betaken himself to thewomens apartment to assist at the prescribed ceremony of the afterbirth inthe presence of the secretary of state for domestic affairs and the membersof the privy council, silent in unanimous exhaustion and approbation thedelegates, chafing under the length and solemnity of their vigil and hopingthat the joyful occurrence would palliate a licence which the simultaneousabsence of abigail and obstetrician rendered the easier, broke out at onceinto a strife of tongues. In vain the voice of Mr Canvasser Bloom was heardendeavouring to urge, to mollify, to refrain. The moment was too propitiousfor the display of that discursiveness which seemed the only bond of unionamong tempers so divergent. Every phase of the situation was successivelyeviscerated: the prenatal repugnance of uterine brothers, the Caesareansection, posthumity with respect to the father and, that rarer form, withrespect to the mother, the fratricidal case known as the Childs Murder andrendered memorable by the impassioned plea of Mr Advocate Bushe whichsecured the acquittal of the wrongfully accused, the rights of primogenitureand kings bounty touching twins and triplets, miscarriages andinfanticides, simulated or dissimulated, the acardiac FOETUS IN FOETU andaprosopia due to a congestion, the agnathia of certain chinless Chinamen(cited by Mr Candidate Mulligan) in consequence of defective reunion ofthe maxillary knobs along the medial line so that (as he said) one ear couldhear what the other spoke, the benefits of anesthesia or twilight sleep, theprolongation of labour pains in advanced gravidancy by reason of pressureon the vein, the premature relentment of the amniotic fluid (as exemplifiedin the actual case) with consequent peril of sepsis to the matrix, artificialinsemination by means of syringes, involution of the womb consequentupon the menopause, the problem of the perpetration of the species in thecase of females impregnated by delinquent rape, that distressing manner ofdelivery called by the Brandenburghers STURZGEBURT, the recorded instancesof multiseminal, twikindled and monstrous births conceived during thecatamenic period or of consanguineous parents--in a word all the cases ofhuman nativity which Aristotle has classified in his masterpiece withchromolithographic illustrations. The gravest problems of obstetrics andforensic medicine were examined with as much animation as the mostpopular beliefs on the state of pregnancy such as the forbidding to a gravidwoman to step over a countrystile lest, by her movement, the navelcordshould strangle her creature and the injunction upon her in the event of ayearning, ardently and ineffectually entertained, to place her hand againstthat part of her person which long usage has consecrated as the seat ofcastigation. The abnormalities of harelip, breastmole, supernumerary digits,negros inkle, strawberry mark and portwine stain were alleged by one as aPRIMA FACIE and natural hypothetical explanation of those swineheaded (thecase of Madame Grissel Steevens was not forgotten) or doghaired infantsoccasionally born. The hypothesis of a plasmic memory, advanced by theCaledonian envoy and worthy of the metaphysical traditions of the land hestood for, envisaged in such cases an arrest of embryonic development atsome stage antecedent to the human. An outlandish delegate sustainedagainst both these views, with such heat as almost carried conviction, thetheory of copulation between women and the males of brutes, his authoritybeing his own avouchment in support of fables such as that of the Minotaurwhich the genius of the elegant Latin poet has handed down to us in thepages of his Metamorphoses. The impression made by his words wasimmediate but shortlived. It was effaced as easily as it had been evoked byan allocution from Mr Candidate Mulligan in that vein of pleasantry whichnone better than he knew how to affect, postulating as the supremest objectof desire a nice clean old man. Contemporaneously, a heated argumenthaving arisen between Mr Delegate Madden and Mr Candidate Lynchregarding the juridical and theological dilemma created in the event of oneSiamese twin predeceasing the other, the difficulty by mutual consent wasreferred to Mr Canvasser Bloom for instant submittal to Mr CoadjutorDeacon Dedalus. Hitherto silent, whether the better to show bypreternatural gravity that curious dignity of the garb with which he wasinvested or in obedience to an inward voice, he delivered briefly and, assome thought, perfunctorily the ecclesiastical ordinance forbidding man toput asunder what God has joined.But Malachias tale began to freeze them with horror. He conjured up thescene before them. The secret panel beside the chimney slid back and inthe recess appeared ... Haines! Which of us did not feel his flesh creep!He had a portfolio full of Celtic literature in one hand, in the other aphial marked POISON. Surprise, horror, loathing were depicted onall faces while he eyed them with a ghostly grin. I anticipatedsome such reception, he began with an eldritch laugh, for which,it seems, history is to blame. Yes, it is true. I am the murderer ofSamuel Childs. And how I am punished! The inferno has no terrorsfor me. This is the appearance is on me. Tare and ages, what way wouldI be resting at all, he muttered thickly, and I tramping Dublin thiswhile back with my share of songs and himself after me the like ofa soulth or a bullawurrus? My hell, and Irelands, is in this life.It is what I tried to obliterate my crime. Distractions, rookshooting,the Erse language (he recited some), laudanum (he raised the phial to hislips), camping out. In vain! His spectre stalks me. Dope is my onlyhope ... Ah! Destruction! The black panther! With a cry he suddenlyvanished and the panel slid back. An instant later his head appearedin the door opposite and said: Meet me at Westland Row station atten past eleven. He was gone. Tears gushed from the eyes of thedissipated host. The seer raised his hand to heaven, murmuring:The vendetta of Mananaun! The sage repeated: LEX TALIONIS. Thesentimentalist is he who would enjoy without incurring the immensedebtorship for a thing done. Malachias, overcome by emotion, ceased.The mystery was unveiled. Haines was the third brother. His realname was Childs. The black panther was himself the ghost of his ownfather. He drank drugs to obliterate. For this relief much thanks. Thelonely house by the graveyard is uninhabited. No soul will live there. Thespider pitches her web in the solitude. The nocturnal rat peers from hishole. A curse is on it. It is haunted. Murderers ground.What is the age of the soul of man? As she hath the virtue of thechameleon to change her hue at every new approach, to be gay with themerry and mournful with the downcast, so too is her age changeable as hermood. No longer is Leopold, as he sits there, ruminating, chewing the cudof reminiscence, that staid agent of publicity and holder of a modestsubstance in the funds. A score of years are blown away. He is youngLeopold. There, as in a retrospective arrangement, a mirror within a mirror(hey, presto!), he beholdeth himself. That young figure of then is seen,precociously manly, walking on a nipping morning from the old house inClanbrassil street to the high school, his booksatchel on him bandolierwise,and in it a goodly hunk of wheaten loaf, a mothers thought. Or it is thesame figure, a year or so gone over, in his first hard hat (ah, that was aday!), already on the road, a fullfledged traveller for the family firm,equipped with an orderbook, a scented handkerchief (not for show only),his case of bright trinketware (alas! a thing now of the past!) and aquiverful of compliant smiles for this or that halfwon housewife reckoningit out upon her fingertips or for a budding virgin, shyly acknowledging (butthe heart? tell me!) his studied baisemoins. The scent, the smile, but, morethan these, the dark eyes and oleaginous address, brought home at duskfallmany a commission to the head of the firm, seated with Jacobs pipe afterlike labours in the paternal ingle (a meal of noodles, you may be sure, isaheating), reading through round horned spectacles some paper from theEurope of a month before. But hey, presto, the mirror is breathed on andthe young knighterrant recedes, shrivels, dwindles to a tiny speck within themist. Now he is himself paternal and these about him might be his sons.Who can say? The wise father knows his own child. He thinks of adrizzling night in Hatch street, hard by the bonded stores there, the first.Together (she is a poor waif, a child of shame, yours and mine and of all fora bare shilling and her luckpenny), together they hear the heavy tread of thewatch as two raincaped shadows pass the new royal university. Bridie!Bridie Kelly! He will never forget the name, ever remember the night: firstnight, the bridenight. They are entwined in nethermost darkness, the willerwith the willed, and in an instant (FIAT!) light shall flood the world. Didheart leap to heart? Nay, fair reader. In a breath twas done but--hold!Back! It must not be! In terror the poor girl flees away through the murk.She is the bride of darkness, a daughter of night. She dare not bear thesunnygolden babe of day. No, Leopold. Name and memory solace thee not.That youthful illusion of thy strength was taken from thee--and in vain.No son of thy loins is by thee. There is none now to be for Leopold, whatLeopold was for Rudolph.The voices blend and fuse in clouded silence: silence that is theinfinite of space: and swiftly, silently the soul is wafted over regions ofcycles of generations that have lived. A region where grey twilight everdescends, never falls on wide sagegreen pasturefields, shedding her dusk,scattering a perennial dew of stars. She follows her mother with ungainlysteps, a mare leading her fillyfoal. Twilight phantoms are they, yet mouldedin prophetic grace of structure, slim shapely haunches, a supple tendonousneck, the meek apprehensive skull. They fade, sad phantoms: all is gone.Agendath is a waste land, a home of screechowls and the sandblind upupa.Netaim, the golden, is no more. And on the highway of the clouds theycome, muttering thunder of rebellion, the ghosts of beasts. Huuh! Hark!Huuh! Parallax stalks behind and goads them, the lancinating lightnings ofwhose brow are scorpions. Elk and yak, the bulls of Bashan and ofBabylon, mammoth and mastodon, they come trooping to the sunken sea,LACUS MORTIS. Ominous revengeful zodiacal host! They moan, passing uponthe clouds, horned and capricorned, the trumpeted with the tusked, thelionmaned, the giantantlered, snouter and crawler, rodent, ruminant andpachyderm, all their moving moaning multitude, murderers of the sun.Onward to the dead sea they tramp to drink, unslaked and with horriblegulpings, the salt somnolent inexhaustible flood. And the equine portentgrows again, magnified in the deserted heavens, nay to heavens ownmagnitude, till it looms, vast, over the house of Virgo. And lo, wonderof metempsychosis, it is she, the everlasting bride, harbinger of thedaystar, the bride, ever virgin. It is she, Martha, thou lost one,Millicent, the young, the dear, the radiant. How serene does she nowarise, a queen among the Pleiades, in the penultimate antelucan hour,shod in sandals of bright gold, coifed with a veil of what do youcall it gossamer. It floats, it flows about her starborn flesh andloose it streams, emerald, sapphire, mauve and heliotrope, sustainedon currents of the cold interstellar wind, winding, coiling, simplyswirling, writhing in the skies a mysterious writing till, aftera myriad metamorphoses of symbol, it blazes, Alpha, a ruby and triangledsign upon the forehead of Taurus.Francis was reminding Stephen of years before when they had been atschool together in Conmees time. He asked about Glaucon, Alcibiades,Pisistratus. Where were they now? Neither knew. You have spoken of thepast and its phantoms, Stephen said. Why think of them? If I call theminto life across the waters of Lethe will not the poor ghosts troop tomy call? Who supposes it? I, Bous Stephanoumenos, bullockbefriendingbard, am lord and giver of their life. He encircled his gadding hairwith a coronal of vineleaves, smiling at Vincent. That answer and thoseleaves, Vincent said to him, will adorn you more fitly when somethingmore, and greatly more, than a capful of light odes can call yourgenius father. All who wish you well hope this for you. All desireto see you bring forth the work you meditate, to acclaim youStephaneforos. I heartily wish you may not fail them. O no, Vincent Lenehan said, laying a hand on the shoulder near him. Have no fear.He could not leave his mother an orphan. The young mans facegrew dark. All could see how hard it was for him to be reminded of hispromise and of his recent loss. He would have withdrawn from the feasthad not the noise of voices allayed the smart. Madden had lost fivedrachmas on Sceptre for a whim of the riders name: Lenehan as muchmore. He told them of the race. The flag fell and, huuh! off, scamper, themare ran out freshly with . Madden up. She was leading the field. Allhearts were beating. Even Phyllis could not contain herself. She waved herscarf and cried: Huzzah! Sceptre wins! But in the straight on the run homewhen all were in close order the dark horse Throwaway drew level, reached,outstripped her. All was lost now. Phyllis was silent: her eyes weresad anemones. Juno, she cried, I am undone. But her lover consoled her andbrought her a bright casket of gold in which lay some oval sugarplumswhich she partook. A tear fell: one only. A whacking fine whip, saidLenehan, is W. Lane. Four winners yesterday and three today. What rider islike him? Mount him on the camel or the boisterous buffalo the victory ina hack canter is still his. But let us bear it as was the ancient wont.Mercy on the luckless! Poor Sceptre! he said with a light sigh.She is not the filly that she was. Never, by this hand, shall webehold such another. By gad, sir, a queen of them. Do you rememberher, Vincent? I wish you could have seen my queen today, Vincentsaid. How young she was and radiant (Lalage were scarce fairbeside her) in her yellow shoes and frock of muslin, I do not know theright name of it. The chestnuts that shaded us were in bloom: the airdrooped with their persuasive odour and with pollen floating by us. In thesunny patches one might easily have cooked on a stone a batch of thosebuns with Corinth fruit in them that Periplipomenes sells in his boothnear the bridge. But she had nought for her teeth but the arm with which Iheld her and in that she nibbled mischievously when I pressed too close. Aweek ago she lay ill, four days on the couch, but today she was free,blithe, mocked at peril. She is more taking then. Her posies tool Madromp that she is, she had pulled her fill as we reclined together. And inyour ear, my friend, you will not think who met us as we left the field.Conmee himself! He was walking by the hedge, reading, I think a brevierbook with, I doubt not, a witty letter in it from Glycera or Chloe tokeep the page. The sweet creature turned all colours in her confusion,feigning to reprove a slight disorder in her dress: a slip of underwoodclung there for the very trees adore her. When Conmee had passed sheglanced at her lovely echo in that little mirror she carries. But he hadbeen kind. In going by he had blessed us. The gods too are ever kind,Lenehan said. If I had poor luck with Basss mare perhaps this draughtof his may serve me more propensely. He was laying his hand upona winejar: Malachi saw it and withheld his act, pointing to thestranger and to the scarlet label. Warily, Malachi whispered, preservea druid silence. His soul is far away. It is as painful perhaps to beawakened from a vision as to be born. Any object, intensely regarded, maybe a gate of access to the incorruptible eon of the gods. Do you not thinkit, Stephen? Theosophos told me so, Stephen answered, whom in a previousexistence Egyptian priests initiated into the mysteries of karmic law. Thelords of the moon, Theosophos told me, an orangefiery shipload fromplanet Alpha of the lunar chain would not assume the etheric doubles andthese were therefore incarnated by the rubycoloured egos from the secondconstellation.However, as a matter of fact though, the preposterous surmise about himbeing in some description of a doldrums or other or mesmerised which was.entirely due to a misconception of the shallowest character, was not thecase at all. The individual whose visual organs while the above was goingon were at this juncture commencing to exhibit symptoms of animation wasas astute if not astuter than any man living and anybody that conjecturedthe contrary would have found themselves pretty speedily in the wrongshop. During the past four minutes or thereabouts he had been staring hardat a certain amount of number one Bass bottled by Messrs Bass and Co atBurton-on-Trent which happened to be situated amongst a lot of othersright opposite to where he was and which was certainly calculated toattract anyones remark on account of its scarlet appearance. He wassimply and solely, as it subsequently transpired for reasons best knownto himself, which put quite an altogether different complexion onthe proceedings, after the moment befores observations about boyhooddays and the turf, recollecting two or three private transactions ofhis own which the other two were as mutually innocent of as the babeunborn. Eventually, however, both their eyes met and as soon asit began to dawn on him that the other was endeavouring to helphimself to the thing he involuntarily determined to help him himselfand so he accordingly took hold of the neck of the mediumsized glassrecipient which contained the fluid sought after and made a capacioushole in it by pouring a lot of it out with, also at the same time,however, a considerable degree of attentiveness in order not to upsetany of the beer that was in it about the place.The debate which ensued was in its scope and progress an epitome ofthe course of life. Neither place nor council was lacking in dignity. Thedebaters were the keenest in the land, the theme they were engaged on theloftiest and most vital. The high hall of Hornes house had never beheld anassembly so representative and so varied nor had the old rafters of thatestablishment ever listened to a language so encyclopaedic. A gallant scenein truth it made. Crotthers was there at the foot of the table in hisstriking Highland garb, his face glowing from the briny airs of the Mullof Galloway. There too, opposite to him, was Lynch whose countenance borealready the stigmata of early depravity and premature wisdom. Next theScotchman was the place assigned to Costello, the eccentric, while at hisside was seated in stolid repose the squat form of Madden. The chair of theresident indeed stood vacant before the hearth but on either flank of itthe figure of Bannon in explorers kit of tweed shorts and salted cowhidebrogues contrasted sharply with the primrose elegance and townbredmanners of Malachi Roland St John Mulligan. Lastly at the head of theboard was the young poet who found a refuge from his labours ofpedagogy and metaphysical inquisition in the convivial atmosphere ofSocratic discussion, while to right and left of him were accommodated theflippant prognosticator, fresh from the hippodrome, and that vigilantwanderer, soiled by the dust of travel and combat and stained by the mire ofan indelible dishonour, but from whose steadfast and constant heart no lureor peril or threat or degradation could ever efface the image of thatvoluptuous loveliness which the inspired pencil of Lafayette has limned forages yet to come.It had better be stated here and now at the outset that the pervertedtranscendentalism to which Mr S. Dedalus (Div. Scep.) contentions wouldappear to prove him pretty badly addicted runs directly counter to acceptedscientific methods. Science, it cannot be too often repeated, deals withtangible phenomena. The man of science like the man in the street has toface hardheaded facts that cannot be blinked and explain them as best hecan. There may be, it is true, some questions which science cannotanswer--at present--such as the first problem submitted by Mr L. Bloom (Pubb.Canv.) regarding the future determination of sex. Must we accept the viewof Empedocles of Trinacria that the right ovary (the postmenstrual period,assert others) is responsible for the birth of males or are the too longneglected spermatozoa or nemasperms the differentiating factors or is it, asmost embryologists incline to opine, such as Culpepper, Spallanzani,Blumenbach, Lusk, Hertwig, Leopold and Valenti, a mixture of both? Thiswould be tantamount to a cooperation (one of natures favourite devices)between the NISUS FORMATIVUS of the nemasperm on the one hand and on theother a happily chosen position, SUCCUBITUS FELIX of the passive element. Theother problem raised by the same inquirer is scarcely less vital: infantmortality. It is interesting because, as he pertinently remarks, we are allborn in the same way but we all die in different ways. Mr M. Mulligan(Hyg. et Eug. Doc.) blames the sanitary conditions in which ourgreylunged citizens contract adenoids, pulmonary complaints etc. byinhaling the bacteria which lurk in dust. These factors, he alleged, and therevolting spectacles offered by our streets, hideous publicity posters,religious ministers of all denominations, mutilated soldiers and sailors,exposed scorbutic cardrivers, the suspended carcases of dead animals,paranoic bachelors and unfructified duennas--these, he said, wereaccountable for any and every fallingoff in the calibre of the race.Kalipedia, he prophesied, would soon be generally adopted and all thegraces of life, genuinely good music, agreeable literature, light philosophy,instructive pictures, plastercast reproductions of the classical statues suchas Venus and Apollo, artistic coloured photographs of prize babies, all theselittle attentions would enable ladies who were in a particular condition topass the intervening months in a most enjoyable manner. Mr J. Crotthers(Disc. Bacc.) attributes some of these demises to abdominal trauma in thecase of women workers subjected to heavy labours in the workshop and tomarital discipline in the home but by far the vast majority to neglect,private or official, culminating in the exposure of newborn infants,the practice of criminal abortion or in the atrocious crime ofinfanticide. Although the former (we are thinking of neglect) isundoubtedly only too true the case he cites of nurses forgetting tocount the sponges in the peritoneal cavity is too rare to benormative. In fact when one comes to look into it the wonder isthat so many pregnancies and deliveries go off so well as they do, all thingsconsidered and in spite of our human shortcomings which often baulknature in her intentions. An ingenious suggestion is that thrown out by MrV. Lynch (Bacc. Arith.) that both natality and mortality, as well as all otherphenomena of evolution, tidal movements, lunar phases, bloodtemperatures, diseases in general, everything, in fine, in natures vastworkshop from the extinction of some remote sun to the blossoming of oneof the countless flowers which beautify our public parks is subject to a lawof numeration as yet unascertained. Still the plain straightforward questionwhy a child of normally healthy parents and seemingly a healthy child andproperly looked after succumbs unaccountably in early childhood (thoughother children of the same marriage do not) must certainly, in the poetswords, give us pause. Nature, we may rest assured, has her own good andcogent reasons for whatever she does and in all probability such deaths aredue to some law of anticipation by which organisms in which morbousgerms have taken up their residence (modern science has conclusivelyshown that only the plasmic substance can be said to be immortal) tend todisappear at an increasingly earlier stage of development, an arrangementwhich, though productive of pain to some of our feelings (notably thematernal), is nevertheless, some of us think, in the long run beneficial tothe race in general in securing thereby the survival of the fittest.Mr S. Dedalus (Div. Scep.) remark (or should it be called an interruption?)that an omnivorous being which can masticate, deglute, digest and apparentlypass through the ordinary channel with pluterperfect imperturbability suchmultifarious aliments as cancrenous females emaciated by parturition,corpulent professional gentlemen, not to speak of jaundiced politicians andchlorotic nuns, might possibly find gastric relief in an innocent collation ofstaggering bob, reveals as nought else could and in a very unsavoury lightthe tendency above alluded to. For the enlightenment of those who are notso intimately acquainted with the minutiae of the municipal abattoir as thismorbidminded esthete and embryo philosopher who for all his overweeningbumptiousness in things scientific can scarcely distinguish an acid from analkali prides himself on being, it should perhaps be stated that staggeringbob in the vile parlance of our lowerclass licensed victuallers signifies thecookable and eatable flesh of a calf newly dropped from its mother. In arecent public controversy with Mr L. Bloom (Pubb. Canv.) which tookplace in the commons hall of the National Maternity Hospital, ,  and Holles street, of which, as is well known, Dr A. Horne (Lic. in Midw.,F. K. Q. C. P. I.) is the able and popular master, he is reported byeyewitnesses as having stated that once a woman has let the cat into the bag(an esthetes allusion, presumably, to one of the most complicated andmarvellous of all natures processes--the act of sexual congress) she mustlet it out again or give it life, as he phrased it, to save her own. At therisk of her own, was the telling rejoinder of his interlocutor, none the lesseffective for the moderate and measured tone in which it was delivered.Meanwhile the skill and patience of the physician had brought abouta happy ACCOUCHEMENT. It had been a weary weary while both for patientand doctor. All that surgical skill could do was done and the brave womanhad manfully helped. She had. She had fought the good fight and now shewas very very happy. Those who have passed on, who have gone before, arehappy too as they gaze down and smile upon the touching scene. Reverentlylook at her as she reclines there with the motherlight in her eyes, thatlonging hunger for baby fingers (a pretty sight it is to see), in the firstbloom of her new motherhood, breathing a silent prayer of thanksgiving to Oneabove, the Universal Husband. And as her loving eyes behold her babe shewishes only one blessing more, to have her dear Doady there with her toshare her joy, to lay in his arms that mite of Gods clay, the fruit of theirlawful embraces. He is older now (you and I may whisper it) and a triflestooped in the shoulders yet in the whirligig of years a grave dignity hascome to the conscientious second accountant of the Ulster bank, CollegeGreen branch. O Doady, loved one of old, faithful lifemate now, it maynever be again, that faroff time of the roses! With the old shake of herpretty head she recalls those days. God! How beautiful now across the mistof years! But their children are grouped in her imagination about thebedside, hers and his, Charley, Mary Alice, Frederick Albert (if he hadlived), Mamy, Budgy (Victoria Frances), Tom, Violet Constance Louisa,darling little Bobsy (called after our famous hero of the South African war,lord Bobs of Waterford and Candahar) and now this last pledge of theirunion, a Purefoy if ever there was one, with the true Purefoy nose. Younghopeful will be christened Mortimer Edward after the influential thirdcousin of Mr Purefoy in the Treasury Remembrancers office, DublinCastle. And so time wags on: but father Cronion has dealt lightly here. No,let no sigh break from that bosom, dear gentle Mina. And Doady, knockthe ashes from your pipe, the seasoned briar you still fancy when the curfewrings for you (may it be the distant day!) and dout the light whereby youread in the Sacred Book for the oil too has run low, and so with a tranquilheart to bed, to rest. He knows and will call in His own good time. You toohave fought the good fight and played loyally your mans part. Sir, to youmy hand. Well done, thou good and faithful servant!There are sins or (let us call them as the world calls them) evilmemories which are hidden away by man in the darkest places of the heartbut they abide there and wait. He may suffer their memory to grow dim, letthem be as though they had not been and all but persuade himself that theywere not or at least were otherwise. Yet a chance word will call them forthsuddenly and they will rise up to confront him in the most variouscircumstances, a vision or a dream, or while timbrel and harp soothe hissenses or amid the cool silver tranquility of the evening or at the feast, atmidnight, when he is now filled with wine. Not to insult over him will thevision come as over one that lies under her wrath, not for vengeance to cuthim off from the living but shrouded in the piteous vesture of the past,silent, remote, reproachful.The stranger still regarded on the face before him a slow recession ofthat false calm there, imposed, as it seemed, by habit or some studied trick,upon words so embittered as to accuse in their speaker an unhealthiness, aFLAIR, for the cruder things of life. A scene disengages itself in theobservers memory, evoked, it would seem, by a word of so natural ahomeliness as if those days were really present there (as some thought)with their immediate pleasures. A shaven space of lawn one soft Mayevening, the wellremembered grove of lilacs at Roundtown, purple andwhite, fragrant slender spectators of the game but with much real interestin the pellets as they run slowly forward over the sward or collide and stop,one by its fellow, with a brief alert shock. And yonder about that grey urnwhere the water moves at times in thoughtful irrigation you saw another asfragrant sisterhood, Floey, Atty, Tiny and their darker friend with I know notwhat of arresting in her pose then, Our Lady of the Cherries, a comely braceof them pendent from an ear, bringing out the foreign warmth of the skin sodaintily against the cool ardent fruit. A lad of four or five in linseywoolsey(blossomtime but there will be cheer in the kindly hearth when ere long thebowls are gathered and hutched) is standing on the urn secured by thatcircle of girlish fond hands. He frowns a little just as this young man doesnow with a perhaps too conscious enjoyment of the danger but must needsglance at whiles towards where his mother watches from the PIAZZETTAgiving upon the flowerclose with a faint shadow of remoteness or ofreproach (ALLES VERGANGLICHE) in her glad look.Mark this farther and remember. The end comes suddenly. Enter thatantechamber of birth where the studious are assembled and note their faces.Nothing, as it seems, there of rash or violent. Quietude of custody, rather,befitting their station in that house, the vigilant watch of shepherds and ofangels about a crib in Bethlehem of Juda long ago. But as before thelightning the serried stormclouds, heavy with preponderant excess ofmoisture, in swollen masses turgidly distended, compass earth and sky inone vast slumber, impending above parched field and drowsy oxen andblighted growth of shrub and verdure till in an instant a flash rives theircentres and with the reverberation of the thunder the cloudburst pours itstorrent, so and not otherwise was the transformation, violent andinstantaneous, upon the utterance of the word.Burkes! outflings my lord Stephen, giving the cry, and a tag andbobtail of all them after, cockerel, jackanapes, welsher, pilldoctor, punctualBloom at heels with a universal grabbing at headgear, ashplants, bilbos,Panama hats and scabbards, Zermatt alpenstocks and what not. A dedale oflusty youth, noble every student there. Nurse Callan taken aback in thehallway cannot stay them nor smiling surgeon coming downstairs withnews of placentation ended, a full pound if a milligramme. They hark himon. The door! It is open? Ha! They are out, tumultuously, off for aminutes race, all bravely legging it, Burkes of Denzille and Holles theirulterior goal. Dixon follows giving them sharp language but raps out anoath, he too, and on. Bloom stays with nurse a thought to send a kind wordto happy mother and nurseling up there. Doctor Diet and Doctor Quiet.Looks she too not other now? Ward of watching in Hornes house has toldits tale in that washedout pallor. Then all being gone, a glance of motherwithelping, he whispers close in going: Madam, when comes the storkbird forthee?The air without is impregnated with raindew moisture, life essencecelestial, glistening on Dublin stone there under starshiny COELUM. Godsair, the Allfathers air, scintillant circumambient cessile air. Breathe itdeep into thee. By heaven, Theodore Purefoy, thou hast done a doughty deedand no botch! Thou art, I vow, the remarkablest progenitor barring none inthis chaffering allincluding most farraginous chronicle. Astounding! In herlay a Godframed Godgiven preformed possibility which thou hast fructifiedwith thy modicum of mans work. Cleave to her! Serve! Toil on, labour likea very bandog and let scholarment and all Malthusiasts go hang. Thou artall their daddies, Theodore. Art drooping under thy load, bemoiled withbutchers bills at home and ingots (not thine!) in the countinghouse? Headup! For every newbegotten thou shalt gather thy homer of ripe wheat. See,thy fleece is drenched. Dost envy Darby Dullman there with his Joan? Acanting jay and a rheumeyed curdog is all their progeny. Pshaw, I tell thee!He is a mule, a dead gasteropod, without vim or stamina, not worth acracked kreutzer. Copulation without population! No, say I! Herodsslaughter of the innocents were the truer name. Vegetables, forsooth, andsterile cohabitation! Give her beefsteaks, red, raw, bleeding! She is a hoarypandemonium of ills, enlarged glands, mumps, quinsy, bunions, hayfever,bedsores, ringworm, floating kidney, Derbyshire neck, warts, bilious attacks,gallstones, cold feet, varicose veins. A truce to threnes and trentalsand jeremies and all such congenital defunctive music! Twenty years of it,regret them not. With thee it was not as with many that will and would andwait and never--do. Thou sawest thy America, thy lifetask, and didstcharge to cover like the transpontine bison. How saith Zarathustra? DEINEKUH TRUBSAL MELKEST DU. NUN TRINKST DU DIE SUSSE MILCH DES EUTERS. See! itdisplodes for thee in abundance. Drink, man, an udderful! Mothers milk,Purefoy, the milk of human kin, milk too of those burgeoning starsoverhead rutilant in thin rainvapour, punch milk, such as those rioters willquaff in their guzzling den, milk of madness, the honeymilk of Canaansland. Thy cows dug was tough, what? Ay, but her milk is hot and sweetand fattening. No dollop this but thick rich bonnyclaber. To her, oldpatriarch! Pap! PER DEAM PARTULAM ET PERTUNDAM NUNC EST BIBENDUM!All off for a buster, armstrong, hollering down the street. Bonafides.Where you slep las nigh? Timothy of the battered naggin. Like ole Billyo.Any brollies or gumboots in the fambly? Where the Henry Nevilssawbones and ole clo? Sorra one o me knows. Hurrah there, Dix! Forwardto the ribbon counter. Wheres Punch? All serene. Jay, look at the drunkenminister coming out of the maternity hospal! BENEDICAT VOS OMNIPOTENSDEUS, PATER ET FILIUS. A make, mister. The Denzille lane boys. Hell, blast ye!Scoot. Righto, Isaacs, shove em out of the bleeding limelight. Yous join uz,dear sir? No hentrusion in life. Lou heap good man. Allee samee dis bunch.EN AVANT, MES ENFANTS! Fire away number one on the gun. Burkes!Burkes! Thence they advanced five parasangs. Slatterys mounted foot.Wheres that bleeding awfur? Parson Steve, apostates creed! No, no,Mulligan! Abaft there! Shove ahead. Keep a watch on the clock.Chuckingout time. Mullee! Whats on you? MA MERE MA MARIEE. BritishBeatitudes! RETAMPLATAN DIGIDI BOUMBOUM. Ayes have it. To be printed andbound at the Druiddrum press by two designing females. Calf covers ofpissedon green. Last word in art shades. Most beautiful book come out ofIreland my time. SILENTIUM! Get a spurt on. Tention. Proceed to nearestcanteen and there annex liquor stores. March! Tramp, tramp, tramp, theboys are (atitudes!) parching. Beer, beef, business, bibles, bulldogsbattleships, buggery and bishops. Whether on the scaffold high. Beer, beef,trample the bibles. When for Irelandear. Trample the trampellers.Thunderation! Keep the durned millingtary step. We fall. Bishopsboosebox. Halt! Heave to. Rugger. Scrum in. No touch kicking. Wow, mytootsies! You hurt? Most amazingly sorry!Query. Whos astanding this here do? Proud possessor of damnall.Declare misery. Bet to the ropes. Me nantee saltee. Not a red at me thisweek gone. Yours? Mead of our fathers for the UBERMENSCH. Dittoh. Fivenumber ones. You, sir? Ginger cordial. Chase me, the cabbys caudle.Stimulate the caloric. Winding of his ticker. Stopped short never to goagain when the old. Absinthe for me, savvy? CARAMBA! Have an eggnog ora prairie oyster. Enemy? Avunculars got my timepiece. Ten to. Obligatedawful. Dont mention it. Got a pectoral trauma, eh, Dix? Pos fact. Got betbe a boomblebee whenever he wus settin sleepin in hes bit garten. Digs upnear the Mater. Buckled he is. Know his dona? Yup, sartin I do. Full of adure. See her in her dishybilly. Peels off a credit. Lovey lovekin. None ofyour lean kine, not much. Pull down the blind, love. Two Ardilauns. Same here.Look slippery. If you fall dont wait to get up. Five, seven, nine. Fine!Got a prime pair of mincepies, no kid. And her take me to rests and heranker of rum. Must be seen to be believed. Your starving eyes andallbeplastered neck you stole my heart, O gluepot. Sir? Spud again therheumatiz? All poppycock, youll scuse me saying. For the hoi polloi. I vearthee beest a gert vool. Well, doc? Back fro Lapland? Your corporositysagaciating O K? Hows the squaws and papooses? Womanbody aftergoing on the straw? Stand and deliver. Password. Theres hair. Ours thewhite death and the ruddy birth. Hi! Spit in your own eye, boss!Mummers wire. Cribbed out of Meredith. Jesified, orchidised, polycimicaljesuit! Aunty mines writing Pa Kinch. Baddybad Stephen lead astraygoodygood Malachi.Hurroo! Collar the leather, youngun. Roun wi the nappy. Here, Jockbraw Hielentmans your barleybree. Lang may your lum reek and yourkailpot boil! My tipple. MERCI. Heres to us. Hows that? Leg before wicket.Dont stain my brandnew sitinems. Gives a shake of peppe, you there.Catch aholt. Caraway seed to carry away. Twig? Shrieks of silence. Everycove to his gentry mort. Venus Pandemos. LES PETITES FEMMES. Bold bad girlfrom the town of Mullingar. Tell her I was axing at her. Hauding Sara bythe wame. On the road to Malahide. Me? If she who seduced me had leftbut the name. What do you want for ninepence? Machree, macruiskeen.Smutty Moll for a mattress jig. And a pull all together. EX!Waiting, guvnor? Most deciduously. Bet your boots on. Stunned like,seeing as how no shiners is acoming. Underconstumble? Heve got thechink AD LIB. Seed near free poun on un a spell ago a said war hisn. Uscome right in on your invite, see? Up to you, matey. Out with the oof. Twobar and a wing. You larn that go off of they there Frenchy bilks? Wontwash here for nuts nohow. Lil chile velly solly. Ise de cutest colour coondown our side. Gawds teruth, Chawley. We are nae fou. Were nae tha fou.Au reservoir, mossoo. Tanks you.Tis, sure. What say? In the speakeasy. Tight. I shee you, shir.Bantam, two days teetee. Bowsing nowt but claretwine. Garn! Have a glint,do. Gum, Im jiggered. And been to barber he have. Too full for words.With a railway bloke. How come you so? Opera hed like? Rose of Castile.Rows of cast. Police! Some HO for a gent fainted. Look at Bantamsflowers. Gemini. Hes going to holler. The colleen bawn. My colleen bawn.O, cheese it! Shut his blurry Dutch oven with a firm hand. Had the winnertoday till I tipped him a dead cert. The ruffin cly the nab of Stephen Handas give me the jady coppaleen. He strike a telegramboy paddock wire bigbug Bass to the depot. Shove him a joey and grahamise. Mare on form hotorder. Guinea to a goosegog. Tell a cram, that. Gospeltrue. Criminaldiversion? I think that yes. Sure thing. Land him in chokeechokee if theharman beck copped the game. Madden back Maddens a maddening back.O lust our refuge and our strength. Decamping. Must you go? Off tomammy. Stand by. Hide my blushes someone. All in if he spots me. Comeahome, our Bantam. Horryvar, mong vioo. Dinna forget the cowslips forhersel. Cornfide. Wha gev ye thon colt? Pal to pal. Jannock. Of JohnThomas, her spouse. No fake, old man Leo. Selp me, honest injun. Shivermy timbers if I had. Theres a great big holy friar. Vyfor you no me tell?Vel, I ses, if that aint a sheeny nachez, vel, I vil get misha mishinnah.Through yerd our lord, Amen.You move a motion? Steve boy, youre going it some. More bluggydrunkables? Will immensely splendiferous stander permit one stooder ofmost extreme poverty and one largesize grandacious thirst to terminate oneexpensive inaugurated libation? Gives a breather. Landlord, landlord, haveyou good wine, staboo? Hoots, mon, a wee drap to pree. Cut and comeagain. Right. Boniface! Absinthe the lot. NOS OMNES BIBERIMUS VIRIDUMTOXICUM DIABOLUS CAPIAT POSTERIORIA NOSTRIA. Closingtime, gents. Eh? Romeboose for the Bloom toff. I hear you say onions? Bloo? Cadges ads. Photospapli, by all thats gorgeous. Play low, pardner. Slide. BONSOIR LA COMPAGNIE.And snares of the poxfiend. Wheres the buck and Namby Amby?Skunked? Leg bail. Aweel, ye maun een gang yer gates. Checkmate. Kingto tower. Kind Kristyann wil yu help yung man hoose frend tuk bungellowkee tu find plais whear tu lay crown of his hed  night. Crickey, Im aboutsprung. Tarnally dog gone my shins if this beent the bestest puttiestlongbreak yet. Item, curate, couple of cookies for this child. Cots ploodand prandypalls, none! Not a pite of sheeses? Thrust syphilis down to helland with him those other licensed spirits. Time, gents! Who wanderthrough the world. Health all! A LA VOTRE!Golly, whatten tunkets yon guy in the mackintosh? Dusty Rhodes.Peep at his wearables. By mighty! Whats he got? Jubilee mutton. Bovril, byJames. Wants it real bad. Dye ken bare socks? Seedy cuss in theRichmond? Rawthere! Thought he had a deposit of lead in his penis.Trumpery insanity. Bartle the Bread we calls him. That, sir, was once aprosperous cit. Man all tattered and torn that married a maiden all forlorn.Slung her hook, she did. Here see lost love. Walking Mackintosh of lonelycanyon. Tuck and turn in. Schedule time. Nix for the hornies. Pardon?Seen him today at a runefal? Chum o yourn passed in his checks?Ludamassy! Pore piccaninnies! Thoull no be telling me thot, Pold veg! Didums blubble bigsplash crytears cos fren Padney was took off in black bag?Of all de darkies Massa Pat was verra best. I never see the like since I wasborn. TIENS, TIENS, but it is well sad, that, my faith, yes. O, get, rev on agradient one in nine. Live axle drives are souped. Lay you two to oneJenatzy licks him ruddy well hollow. Jappies? High angle fire, inyah! Sunkby war specials. Be worse for him, says he, nor any Rooshian. Time all.Theres eleven of them. Get ye gone. Forward, woozy wobblers! Night.Night. May Allah the Excellent One your soul this night ever tremendouslyconserve.Your attention! Were nae tha fou. The Leith police dismisseth us. Theleast tholice. Ware hawks for the chap puking. Unwell in his abominableregions. Yooka. Night. Mona, my true love. Yook. Mona, my own love.Ook.Hark! Shut your obstropolos. Pflaap! Pflaap! Blaze on. There shegoes. Brigade! Bout ship. Mount street way. Cut up! Pflaap! Tally ho. Younot come? Run, skelter, race. Pflaaaap!Lynch! Hey? Sign on long o me. Denzille lane this way. Change herefor Bawdyhouse. We two, she said, will seek the kips where shady Mary is.Righto, any old time. LAETABUNTUR IN CUBILIBUS SUIS. You coming long?Whisper, who the sooty hells the johnny in the black duds? Hush! Sinnedagainst the light and even now that day is at hand when he shall come tojudge the world by fire. Pflaap! UT IMPLERENTUR SCRIPTURAE. Strike up aballad. Then outspake medical Dick to his comrade medical Davy.Christicle, whos this excrement yellow gospeller on the Merrion hall?Elijah is coming! Washed in the blood of the Lamb. Come on youwinefizzling, ginsizzling, booseguzzling existences! Come on, youdog-gone, bullnecked, beetlebrowed, hogjowled, peanutbrained, weaseleyedfourflushers, false alarms and excess baggage! Come on, you triple extractof infamy! Alexander J Christ Dowie, thats my name, thats yanked toglory most half this planet from Frisco beach to Vladivostok. The Deityaint no nickel dime bumshow. I put it to you that Hes on the square and acorking fine business proposition. Hes the grandest thing yet and dontyou forget it. Shout salvation in King Jesus. Youll need to rise preciousearly you sinner there, if you want to diddle the Almighty God. Pflaaaap!Not half. Hes got a coughmixture with a punch in it for you, my friend,in his back pocket. Just you try it on.    * * * * * * *THE MABBOT STREET ENTRANCE OF NIGHTTOWN, BEFORE WHICH STRETCHESAN UNCOBBLED TRAMSIDING SET WITH SKELETON TRACKS, RED AND GREENWILL-O-THE-WISPS AND DANGER SIGNALS. ROWS OF GRIMY HOUSES WITHGAPING DOORS. RARE LAMPS WITH FAINT RAINBOW FINS. ROUNDRABAIOTTIS HALTED ICE GONDOLA STUNTED MEN AND WOMEN SQUABBLE.THEY GRAB WAFERS BETWEEN WHICH ARE WEDGED LUMPS OF CORAL ANDCOPPER SNOW. SUCKING, THEY SCATTER SLOWLY, CHILDREN. THE SWANCOMBOF THE GONDOLA, HIGHREARED, FORGES ON THROUGH THE MURK, WHITE ANDBLUE UNDER A LIGHTHOUSE. WHISTLES CALL AND ANSWER.THE CALLS: Wait, my love, and Ill be with you.THE ANSWERS: Round behind the stable.(A DEAFMUTE IDIOT WITH GOGGLE EYES, HIS SHAPELESS MOUTH DRIBBLING,JERKS PAST, SHAKEN IN SAINT VITUS DANCE. A CHAIN OF CHILDREN S HANDSIMPRISONS HIM.)THE CHILDREN: Kithogue! Salute!THE IDIOT: (LIFTS A PALSIED LEFT ARM AND GURGLES) Grhahute!THE CHILDREN: Wheres the great light?THE IDIOT: (GOBBING) Ghaghahest.(THEY RELEASE HIM. HE JERKS ON. A PIGMY WOMAN SWINGS ON A ROPESLUNG BETWEEN TWO RAILINGS, COUNTING. A FORM SPRAWLED AGAINST ADUSTBIN AND MUFFLED BY ITS ARM AND HAT SNORES, GROANS, GRINDINGGROWLING TEETH, AND SNORES AGAIN. ON A STEP A GNOME TOTTING AMONGA RUBBISHTIP CROUCHES TO SHOULDER A SACK OF RAGS AND BONES. A CRONESTANDING BY WITH A SMOKY OILLAMP RAMS HER LAST BOTTLE IN THE MAW OFHIS SACK. HE HEAVES HIS BOOTY, TUGS ASKEW HIS PEAKED CAP ANDHOBBLES OFF MUTELY. THE CRONE MAKES BACK FOR HER LAIR, SWAYING HERLAMP. A BANDY CHILD, ASQUAT ON THE DOORSTEP WITH A PAPERSHUTTLECOCK, CRAWLS SIDLING AFTER HER IN SPURTS, CLUTCHES HER SKIRT,SCRAMBLES UP. A DRUNKEN NAVVY GRIPS WITH BOTH HANDS THE RAILINGSOF AN AREA, LURCHING HEAVILY. AT A COMER TWO NIGHT WATCH INSHOULDERCAPES, THEIR HANDS UPON THEIR STAFFHOLSTERS, LOOM TALL. APLATE CRASHES: A WOMAN SCREAMS: A CHILD WAILS. OATHS OF A MANROAR, MUTTER, CEASE. FIGURES WANDER, LURK, PEER FROM WARRENS. IN AROOM LIT BY A CANDLE STUCK IN A BOTTLENECK A SLUT COMBS OUT THE TATTSFROM THE HAIR OF A SCROFULOUS CHILD. CISSY CAFFREYS VOICE, STILLYOUNG, SINGS SHRILL FROM A LANE.)CISSY CAFFREY:    I GAVE IT TO MOLLY    BECAUSE SHE WAS JOLLY,    THE LEG OF THE DUCK,    THE LEG OF THE DUCK.(PRIVATE CARR AND PRIVATE COMPTON, SWAGGERSTICKS TIGHT IN THEIROXTERS, AS THEY MARCH UNSTEADILY RIGHTABOUTFACE AND BURST TOGETHERFROM THEIR MOUTHS A VOLLEYED FART. LAUGHTER OF MEN FROM THE LANE. AHOARSE VIRAGO RETORTS.)THE VIRAGO: Signs on you, hairy arse. More power the Cavan girl.CISSY CAFFREY: More luck to me. Cavan, Cootehill and Belturbet.(SHE SINGS)    I GAVE IT TO NELLY    TO STICK IN HER BELLY,    THE LEG OF THE DUCK,    THE LEG OF THE DUCK.(PRIVATE CARR AND PRIVATE COMPTON TURN AND COUNTERRETORT, THEIRTUNICS BLOODBRIGHT IN A LAMPGLOW, BLACK SOCKETS OF CAPS ON THEIRBLOND CROPPED POLLS. STEPHEN DEDALUS AND LYNCH PASS THROUGH THECROWD CLOSE TO THE REDCOATS.)PRIVATE COMPTON: (JERKS HIS FINGER) Way for the parson.PRIVATE CARR: (TURNS AND CALLS) What ho, parson!CISSY CAFFREY: (HER VOICE SOARING HIGHER)    SHE HAS IT, SHE GOT IT,    WHEREVER SHE PUT IT,    THE LEG OF THE DUCK.(STEPHEN, FLOURISHING THE ASHPLANT IN HIS LEFT HAND, CHANTS WITH JOYTHE INTROIT FOR PASCHAL TIME. LYNCH, HIS JOCKEYCAP LOW ON HIS BROW,ATTENDS HIM, A SNEER OF DISCONTENT WRINKLING HIS FACE.)STEPHEN: VIDI AQUAM EGREDIENTEM DE TEMPLO A LATERE DEXTRO. ALLELUIA.(THE FAMISHED SNAGGLETUSKS OF AN ELDERLY BAWD PROTRUDE FROM A DOORWAY.)THE BAWD: (HER VOICE WHISPERING HUSKILY) Sst! Come here till I tell you.Maidenhead inside. Sst!STEPHEN: (ALTIUS ALIQUANTULUM) ET OMNES AD QUOS PERVENIT AQUA ISTA.THE BAWD: (SPITS IN THEIR TRAIL HER JET OF VENOM) Trinity medicals.Fallopian tube. All prick and no pence.(EDY BOARDMAN, SNIFFLING, CROUCHED WITH BERTHA SUPPLE, DRAWS HERSHAWL ACROSS HER NOSTRILS.)EDY BOARDMAN: (BICKERING) And says the one: I seen you up Faithful placewith your squarepusher, the greaser off the railway, in his cometobedhat. Did you, says I. Thats not for you to say, says I. You neverseen me in the mantrap with a married highlander, says I. The likesof her! Stag that one is! Stubborn as a mule! And her walking with twofellows the one time, Kilbride, the enginedriver, and lancecorporalOliphant.STEPHEN: (TRIUMPHALITER) SALVI FACTI SUNT.(HE FLOURISHES HIS ASHPLANT, SHIVERING THE LAMP IMAGE, SHATTERINGLIGHT OVER THE WORLD. A LIVER AND WHITE SPANIEL ON THE PROWL SLINKSAFTER HIM, GROWLING. LYNCH SCARES IT WITH A KICK.)LYNCH: So that?STEPHEN: (LOOKS BEHIND) So that gesture, not music not odour, would be auniversal language, the gift of tongues rendering visible not the laysense but the first entelechy, the structural rhythm.LYNCH: Pornosophical philotheology. Metaphysics in Mecklenburgh street!STEPHEN: We have shrewridden Shakespeare and henpecked Socrates. Even theallwisest Stagyrite was bitted, bridled and mounted by a light of love.LYNCH: Ba!STEPHEN: Anyway, who wants two gestures to illustrate a loaf and a jug?This movement illustrates the loaf and jug of bread or wine in Omar.Hold my stick.LYNCH: Damn your yellow stick. Where are we going?STEPHEN: Lecherous lynx, TO LA BELLE DAME SANS MERCI, GEORGINA JOHNSON,AD DEAM QUI LAETIFICAT IUVENTUTEM MEAM.(STEPHEN THRUSTS THE ASHPLANT ON HIM AND SLOWLY HOLDS OUT HISHANDS, HIS HEAD GOING BACK TILL BOTH HANDS ARE A SPAN FROM HISBREAST, DOWN TURNED, IN PLANES INTERSECTING, THE FINGERS ABOUT TOPART, THE LEFT BEING HIGHER.)LYNCH: Which is the jug of bread? It skills not. That or the customhouse.Illustrate thou. Here take your crutch and walk.(THEY PASS. TOMMY CAFFREY SCRAMBLES TO A GASLAMP AND, CLASPING,CLIMBS IN SPASMS. FROM THE TOP SPUR HE SLIDES DOWN. JACKY CAFFREYCLASPS TO CLIMB. THE NAVVY LURCHES AGAINST THE LAMP. THE TWINSSCUTTLE OFF IN THE DARK. THE NAVVY, SWAYING, PRESSES A FOREFINGERAGAINST A WING OF HIS NOSE AND EJECTS FROM THE FARTHER NOSTRIL A LONGLIQUID JET OF SNOT. SHOULDERING THE LAMP HE STAGGERS AWAY THROUGHTHE CROWD WITH HIS FLARING CRESSET.SNAKES OF RIVER FOG CREEP SLOWLY. FROM DRAINS, CLEFTS, CESSPOOLS,MIDDENS ARISE ON ALL SIDES STAGNANT FUMES. A GLOW LEAPS IN THE SOUTHBEYOND THE SEAWARD REACHES OF THE RIVER. THE NAVVY, STAGGERINGFORWARD, CLEAVES THE CROWD AND LURCHES TOWARDS THE TRAMSIDING ONTHE FARTHER SIDE UNDER THE RAILWAY BRIDGE BLOOM APPEARS, FLUSHED,PANTING, CRAMMING BREAD AND CHOCOLATE INTO A SIDEPOCKET. FROMGILLENS HAIRDRESSERS WINDOW A COMPOSITE PORTRAIT SHOWS HIMGALLANT NELSON S IMAGE. A CONCAVE MIRROR AT THE SIDE PRESENTS TO HIMLOVELORN LONGLOST LUGUBRU BOOLOOHOOM. GRAVE GLADSTONE SEES HIMLEVEL, BLOOM FOR BLOOM. HE PASSES, STRUCK BY THE STARE OF TRUCULENTWELLINGTON, BUT IN THE CONVEX MIRROR GRIN UNSTRUCK THE BONHAM EYESAND FATCHUCK CHEEKCHOPS OF JOLLYPOLDY THE RIXDIX DOLDY.AT ANTONIO PABAIOTTIS DOOR BLOOM HALTS, SWEATED UNDER THE BRIGHTARCLAMP. HE DISAPPEARS. IN A MOMENT HE REAPPEARS AND HURRIESON.)BLOOM: Fish and taters. N. g. Ah!(HE DISAPPEARS INTO OLHAUSENS, THE PORKBUTCHERS, UNDER THEDOWNCOMING ROLLSHUTTER. A FEW MOMENTS LATER HE EMERGES FROMUNDER THE SHUTTER, PUFFING POLDY, BLOWING BLOOHOOM. IN EACH HANDHE HOLDS A PARCEL, ONE CONTAINING A LUKEWARM PIGS CRUBEEN, THEOTHER A COLD SHEEPS TROTTER, SPRINKLED WITH WHOLEPEPPER. HE GASPS,STANDING UPRIGHT. THEN BENDING TO ONE SIDE HE PRESSES A PARCELAGAINST HIS RIBS AND GROANS.)BLOOM: Stitch in my side. Why did I run?(HE TAKES BREATH WITH CARE AND GOES FORWARD SLOWLY TOWARDS THELAMPSET SIDING THE GLOW LEAPS AGAIN.)BLOOM: What is that? A flasher? Searchlight.(HE STANDS AT CORMACKS CORNER, WATCHING)BLOOM: Aurora borealis or a steel foundry? Ah, the brigade, of course. Southside anyhow. Big blaze. Might be his house. Beggars bush. Were safe. (HEHUMS CHEERFULLY) Londons burning, Londons burning! On fire, on fire!(HE CATCHES SIGHT OF THE NAVVY LURCHING THROUGH THE CROWD AT THE FARTHERSIDE OF TALBOT STREET) Ill miss him. Run. Quick. Better cross here.(HE DARTS TO CROSS THE ROAD. URCHINS SHOUT.)THE URCHINS: Mind out, mister! (TWO CYCLISTS, WITH LIGHTED PAPER LANTERNSASWING, SWIM BY HIM, GRAZING HIM, THEIR BELLS RATTLING)THE BELLS: Haltyaltyaltyall.BLOOM: (HALTS ERECT, STUNG BY A SPASM) Ow!(HE LOOKS ROUND, DARTS FORWARD SUDDENLY. THROUGH RISING FOG ADRAGON SANDSTREWER, TRAVELLING AT CAUTION, SLEWS HEAVILY DOWN UPONHIM, ITS HUGE RED HEADLIGHT WINKING, ITS TROLLEY HISSING ON THE WIRE.THE MOTORMAN BANGS HIS FOOTGONG.)THE GONG: Bang Bang Bla Bak Blud Bugg Bloo.(THE BRAKE CRACKS VIOLENTLY. BLOOM, RAISING A POLICEMANSWHITEGLOVED HAND, BLUNDERS STIFFLEGGED OUT OF THE TRACK. THEMOTORMAN, THROWN FORWARD, PUGNOSED, ON THE GUIDEWHEEL, YELLS ASHE SLIDES PAST OVER CHAINS AND KEYS.)THE MOTORMAN: Hey, shitbreeches, are you doing the hat trick?BLOOM: (BLOOM TRICKLEAPS TO THE CURBSTONE AND HALTS AGAIN. HE BRUSHES AMUDFLAKE FROM HIS CHEEK WITH A PARCELLED HAND.) No thoroughfare. Closeshave that but cured the stitch. Must take up Sandows exercisesagain. On the hands down. Insure against street accident too.The Providential. (HE FEELS HIS TROUSER POCKET) Poor mammaspanacea. Heel easily catch in track or bootlace in a cog. Day thewheel of the black Maria peeled off my shoe at Leonards corner. Thirdtime is the charm. Shoe trick. Insolent driver. I ought to report him.Tension makes them nervous. Might be the fellow balked me this morningwith that horsey woman. Same style of beauty. Quick of him all the same.The stiff walk. True word spoken in jest. That awful cramp in Lad lane.Something poisonous I ate. Emblem of luck. Why? Probably lost cattle.Mark of the beast. (HE CLOSES HIS EYES AN INSTANT) Bit light in the head.Monthly or effect of the other. Brainfogfag. That tired feeling. Too muchfor me now. Ow!(A SINISTER FIGURE LEANS ON PLAITED LEGS AGAINST OBEIRNES WALL, AVISAGE UNKNOWN, INJECTED WITH DARK MERCURY. FROM UNDER AWIDELEAVED SOMBRERO THE FIGURE REGARDS HIM WITH EVIL EYE.)BLOOM: BUENAS NOCHES, SENORITA BLANCA. QUE CALLE ES ESTA?THE FIGURE: (IMPASSIVE, RAISES A SIGNAL ARM) Password. SRAID MABBOT.BLOOM: Haha. MERCI. Esperanto. SLAN LEATH. (HE MUTTERS) Gaelic league spy,sent by that fireeater.(HE STEPS FORWARD. A SACKSHOULDERED RAGMAN BARS HIS PATH. HE STEPS LEFT,RAGSACKMAN LEFT.)BLOOM: I beg. (HE SWERVES, SIDLES, STEPASIDE, SLIPS PAST AND ON.)BLOOM: Keep to the right, right, right. If there is a signpost planted by theTouring Club at Stepaside who procured that public boon? I who lost my wayand contributed to the columns of the IRISH CYCLIST the letter headed INDARKEST STEPASIDE. Keep, keep, keep to the right. Rags and bones atmidnight. A fence more likely. First place murderer makes for. Wash offhis sins of the world.(JACKY CAFFREY, HUNTED BY TOMMY CAFFREY, RUNS FULL TILT AGAINST BLOOM.)BLOOM: O(SHOCKED, ON WEAK HAMS, HE HALTS. TOMMY AND JACKY VANISH THERE,THERE. BLOOM PATS WITH PARCELLED HANDS WATCH FOBPOCKET, BOOKPOCKET,PURSEPOKET, SWEETS OF SIN, POTATO SOAP.)BLOOM: Beware of pickpockets. Old thieves dodge. Collide. Then snatch yourpurse.(THE RETRIEVER APPROACHES SNIFFING, NOSE TO THE GROUND. A SPRAWLEDFORM SNEEZES. A STOOPED BEARDED FIGURE APPEARS GARBED IN THE LONGCAFTAN OF AN ELDER IN ZION AND A SMOKINGCAP WITH MAGENTA TASSELS.HORNED SPECTACLES HANG DOWN AT THE WINGS OF THE NOSE. YELLOWPOISON STREAKS ARE ON THE DRAWN FACE.)RUDOLPH: Second halfcrown waste money today. I told you not go with drunkengoy ever. So you catch no money.BLOOM: (HIDES THE CRUBEEN AND TROTTER BEHIND HIS BACK AND, CRESTFALLEN, FEELSWARM AND COLD FEETMEAT) JA, ICH WEISS, PAPACHI.RUDOLPH: What you making down this place? Have you no soul? (WITH FEEBLEVULTURE TALONS HE FEELS THE SILENT FACE OF BLOOM) Are you not my son Leopold,the grandson of Leopold? Are you not my dear son Leopold who left the houseof his father and left the god of his fathers Abraham and Jacob?BLOOM: (WITH PRECAUTION) I suppose so, father. Mosenthal. All thats left ofhim.RUDOLPH: (SEVERELY) One night they bring you home drunk as dog after spendyour good money. What you call them running chaps?BLOOM: (IN YOUTHS SMART BLUE OXFORD SUIT WITH WHITE VESTSLIPS,NARROWSHOULDERED, IN BROWN ALPINE HAT, WEARING GENTS STERLING SILVERWATERBURY KEYLESS WATCH AND DOUBLE CURB ALBERT WITH SEAL ATTACHED, ONESIDE OF HIM COATED WITH STIFFENING MUD) Harriers, father. Only that once.RUDOLPH: Once! Mud head to foot. Cut your hand open. Lockjaw. They make youkaputt, Leopoldleben. You watch them chaps.BLOOM: (WEAKLY) They challenged me to a sprint. It was muddy. I slipped.RUDOLPH: (WITH CONTEMPT) GOIM NACHEZ! Nice spectacles for your poor mother!BLOOM: Mamma!ELLEN BLOOM: (IN PANTOMIME DAMES STRINGED MOBCAP, WIDOW TWANKEYS CRINOLINEAND BUSTLE, BLOUSE WITH MUTTONLEG SLEEVES BUTTONED BEHIND, GREY MITTENS ANDCAMEO BROOCH, HER PLAITED HAIR IN A CRISPINE NET, APPEARS OVER THESTAIRCASE BANISTERS, A SLANTED CANDLESTICK IN HER HAND, AND CRIES OUT INSHRILL ALARM) O blessed Redeemer, what have they done to him! My smellingsalts! (SHE HAULS UP A REEF OF SKIRT AND RANSACKS THE POUCH OF HER STRIPEDBLAY PETTICOAT A PHIAL, AN AGNUS DEI, A SHRIVELLED POTATO AND A CELLULOIDDOLL FALL OUT) Sacred Heart of Mary, where were you at all at all?(BLOOM, MUMBLING, HIS EYES DOWNCAST, BEGINS TO BESTOW HIS PARCELSIN HIS FILLED POCKETS BUT DESISTS, MUTTERING.)A VOICE: (SHARPLY) Poldy!BLOOM: Who? (HE DUCKS AND WARDS OFF A BLOW CLUMSILY) At your service.(HE LOOKS UP. BESIDE HER MIRAGE OF DATEPALMS A HANDSOME WOMANIN TURKISH COSTUME STANDS BEFORE HIM. OPULENT CURVES FILL OUT HERSCARLET TROUSERS AND JACKET, SLASHED WITH GOLD. A WIDE YELLOWCUMMERBUND GIRDLES HER. A WHITE YASHMAK, VIOLET IN THE NIGHT,COVERS HER FACE, LEAVING FREE ONLY HER LARGE DARK EYES AND RAVENHAIR.)BLOOM: Molly!MARION: Welly? Mrs Marion from this out, my dear man, when you speak to me.(SATIRICALLY) Has poor little hubby cold feet waiting so long?BLOOM: (SHIFTS FROM FOOT TO FOOT) No, no. Not the least little bit.(HE BREATHES IN DEEP AGITATION, SWALLOWING GULPS OF AIR, QUESTIONS,HOPES, CRUBEENS FOR HER SUPPER, THINGS TO TELL HER, EXCUSE, DESIRE,SPELLBOUND. A COIN GLEAMS ON HER FOREHEAD. ON HER FEET ARE JEWELLEDTOERINGS. HER ANKLES ARE LINKED BY A SLENDER FETTERCHAIN. BESIDE HER ACAMEL, HOODED WITH A TURRETING TURBAN, WAITS. A SILK LADDER OFINNUMERABLE RUNGS CLIMBS TO HIS BOBBING HOWDAH. HE AMBLES NEARWITH DISGRUNTLED HINDQUARTERS. FIERCELY SHE SLAPS HIS HAUNCH, HERGOLDCURB WRISTBANGLES ANGRILING, SCOLDING HIM IN MOORISH.)MARION: Nebrakada! Femininum!(THE CAMEL, LIFTING A FORELEG, PLUCKS FROM A TREE A LARGE MANGO FRUIT,OFFERS IT TO HIS MISTRESS, BLINKING, IN HIS CLOVEN HOOF, THEN DROOPS HISHEAD AND, GRUNTING, WITH UPLIFTED NECK, FUMBLES TO KNEEL. BLOOMSTOOPS HIS BACK FOR LEAPFROG.)BLOOM: I can give you ... I mean as your business menagerer ... MrsMarion ... if you  ...MARION: So you notice some change? (HER HANDS PASSING SLOWLY OVER HERTRINKETED STOMACHER, A SLOW FRIENDLY MOCKERY IN HER EYES) O Poldy, Poldy,you are a poor old stick in the mud! Go and see life. See the wide world.BLOOM: I was just going back for that lotion whitewax, orangeflower water.Shop closes early on Thursday. But the first thing in the morning. (HE PATSDIVERS POCKETS) This moving kidney. Ah!(HE POINTS TO THE SOUTH, THEN TO THE EAST. A CAKE OF NEW CLEAN LEMONSOAP ARISES, DIFFUSING LIGHT AND PERFUME.)THE SOAP:    Were a capital couple are Bloom and I.    He brightens the earth. I polish the sky.(THE FRECKLED FACE OF SWENY, THE DRUGGIST, APPEARS IN THE DISC OF THESOAPSUN.)SWENY: Three and a penny, please.BLOOM: Yes. For my wife. Mrs Marion. Special recipe.MARION: (SOFTLY) Poldy!BLOOM: Yes, maam?MARION: TI TREMA UN POCO IL CUORE?(IN DISDAIN SHE SAUNTERS AWAY, PLUMP AS A PAMPERED POUTER PIGEON,HUMMING THE DUET FROM Don Giovanni.)BLOOM: Are you sure about that VOGLIO? I mean the pronunciati ...(HE FOLLOWS, FOLLOWED BY THE SNIFFING TERRIER. THE ELDERLY BAWDSEIZES HIS SLEEVE, THE BRISTLES OF HER CHINMOLE GLITTERING.)THE BAWD: Ten shillings a maidenhead. Fresh thing was never touched.Fifteen. Theres no-one in it only her old father thats dead drunk.(SHE POINTS. IN THE GAP OF HER DARK DEN FURTIVE, RAINBEDRAGGLED,BRIDIE KELLY STANDS.)BRIDIE: Hatch street. Any good in your mind?(WITH A SQUEAK SHE FLAPS HER BAT SHAWL AND RUNS. A BURLY ROUGHPURSUES WITH BOOTED STRIDES. HE STUMBLES ON THE STEPS, RECOVERS,PLUNGES INTO GLOOM. WEAK SQUEAKS OF LAUGHTER ARE HEARD, WEAKER.)THE BAWD: (HER WOLFEYES SHINING) Hes getting his pleasure. You wont geta virgin in the flash houses. Ten shillings. Dont be all night before thepolis in plain clothes sees us. Sixtyseven is a bitch.(LEERING, GERTY MACDOWELL LIMPS FORWARD. SHE DRAWS FROM BEHIND,OGLING, AND SHOWS COYLY HER BLOODIED CLOUT.)GERTY: With all my worldly goods I thee and thou. (SHE MURMURS) You didthat. I hate you.BLOOM: I? When? Youre dreaming. I never saw you.THE BAWD: Leave the gentleman alone, you cheat. Writing the gentlemanfalse letters. Streetwalking and soliciting. Better for your mother takethe strap to you at the bedpost, hussy like you.GERTY: (TO BLOOM) When you saw all the secrets of my bottom drawer.(SHE PAWS HIS SLEEVE, SLOBBERING) Dirty married man! I love you for doingthat to me.(SHE GLIDES AWAY CROOKEDLY. MRS BREEN IN MANS FRIEZE OVERCOATWITH LOOSE BELLOWS POCKETS, STANDS IN THE CAUSEWAY, HER ROGUISH EYESWIDEOPEN, SMILING IN ALL HER HERBIVOROUS BUCKTEETH.)MRS BREEN: Mr ...BLOOM: (COUGHS GRAVELY) Madam, when we last had this pleasure by letterdated the sixteenth instant ...MRS BREEN: Mr Bloom! You down here in the haunts of sin! I caught younicely! Scamp!BLOOM: (HURRIEDLY) Not so loud my name. Whatever do you think of me? Dontgive me away. Walls have ears. How do you do? Its ages since I. Yourelooking splendid. Absolutely it. Seasonable weather we are having thistime of year. Black refracts heat. Short cut home here. Interestingquarter. Rescue of fallen women. Magdalen asylum. I am the secretary ...MRS BREEN: (HOLDS UP A FINGER) Now, dont tell a big fib! I know somebodywont like that. O just wait till I see Molly! (slily) Account foryourself this very sminute or woe betide you!BLOOM: (LOOKS BEHIND) She often said shed like to visit. Slumming.The exotic, you see. Negro servants in livery too if she had money.Othello black brute. Eugene Stratton. Even the bones and cornerman at theLivermore christies. Bohee brothers. Sweep for that matter.(TOM AND SAM BOHEE, COLOURED COONS IN WHITE DUCK SUITS, SCARLETSOCKS, UPSTARCHED SAMBO CHOKERS AND LARGE SCARLET ASTERS IN THEIRBUTTONHOLES, LEAP OUT EACH HAS HIS BANJO SLUNG THEIR PALER SMALLERNEGROID HANDS JINGLE THE TWINGTWANG WIRES. FLASHING WHITE KAFFIREYES AND TUSKS THEY RATTLE THROUGH A BREAKDOWN IN CLUMSY CLOGS,TWINGING, SINGING, BACK TO BACK, TOE HEEL, HEEL TOE, WITHSMACKFATCLACKING NIGGER LIPS.)TOM AND SAM:    Theres someone in the house with Dina    Theres someone in the house, I know,    Theres someone in the house with Dina    Playing on the old banjo.(THEY WHISK BLACK MASKS FROM RAW BABBY FACES: THEN, CHUCKLING,CHORTLING, TRUMMING, TWANGING, THEY DIDDLE DIDDLE CAKEWALK DANCEAWAY.)BLOOM: (WITH A SOUR TENDERISH SMILE) A little frivol, shall we, if you are soinclined? Would you like me perhaps to embrace you just for a fractionof a second?MRS BREEN: (SCREAMS GAILY) O, you ruck! You ought to see yourself!BLOOM: For old sake sake. I only meant a square party, a mixed marriagemingling of our different little conjugials. You know I had a soft cornerfor you. (GLOOMILY) Twas I sent you that valentine of the dear gazelle.MRS BREEN: Glory Alice, you do look a holy show! Killing simply.(SHE PUTS OUT HER HAND INQUISITIVELY) What are you hiding behind yourback? Tell us, theres a dear.BLOOM: (SEIZES HER WRIST WITH HIS FREE HAND) Josie Powell that was,prettiest deb in Dublin. How time flies by! Do you remember, harking backin a retrospective arrangement, Old Christmas night, Georgina Simpsonshousewarming while they were playing the Irving Bishop game, finding thepin blindfold and thoughtreading? Subject, what is in this snuffbox?MRS BREEN: You were the lion of the night with your seriocomic recitationand you looked the part. You were always a favourite with the ladies.BLOOM: (SQUIRE OF DAMES, IN DINNER JACKET WITH WATEREDSILK FACINGS, BLUEMASONIC BADGE IN HIS BUTTONHOLE, BLACK BOW AND MOTHER-OF-PEARL STUDS,A PRISMATIC CHAMPAGNE GLASS TILTED IN HIS HAND) Ladies and gentlemen,I give you Ireland, home and beauty.MRS BREEN: The dear dead days beyond recall. Loves old sweet song.BLOOM: (MEANINGFULLY DROPPING HIS VOICE) I confess Im teapot withcuriosity to find out whether some persons something is a little teapotat present.MRS BREEN: (GUSHINGLY) Tremendously teapot! Londons teapot and Im simplyteapot all over me! (SHE RUBS SIDES WITH HIM) After the parlour mysterygames and the crackers from the tree we sat on the staircase ottoman.Under the mistletoe. Two is company.BLOOM: (WEARING A PURPLE NAPOLEON HAT WITH AN AMBER HALFMOON, HIS FINGERSAND THUMB PASSING SLOWLY DOWN TO HER SOFT MOIST MEATY PALM WHICH SHESURRENDERS GENTLY) The witching hour of night. I took the splinter out ofthis hand, carefully, slowly. (TENDERLY, AS HE SLIPS ON HER FINGER A RUBYRING) LA CI DAREM LA MANO.MRS BREEN: (IN A ONEPIECE EVENING FROCK EXECUTED IN MOONLIGHT BLUE, ATINSEL SYLPHS DIADEM ON HER BROW WITH HER DANCECARD FALLEN BESIDE HERMOONBLUE SATIN SLIPPER, CURVES HER PALM SOFTLY, BREATHING QUICKLY) VOGLIOE NON. Youre hot! Youre scalding! The left hand nearest the heart.BLOOM: When you made your present choice they said it was beauty and thebeast. I can never forgive you for that. (HIS CLENCHED FIST AT HIS BROW)Think what it means. All you meant to me then. (HOARSELY) Woman, itsbreaking me!(DENIS BREEN, WHITETALLHATTED, WITH WISDOM HELYS SANDWICH-BOARDS, SHUFFLES PAST THEM IN CARPET SLIPPERS, HIS DULL BEARDTHRUST OUT, MUTTERING TO RIGHT AND LEFT. LITTLE ALF BERGAN, CLOAKED INTHE PALL OF THE ACE OF SPADES, DOGS HIM TO LEFT AND RIGHT, DOUBLED INLAUGHTER.)ALF BERGAN: (POINTS JEERING AT THE SANDWICHBOARDS) U. p: Up.MRS BREEN: (TO BLOOM) High jinks below stairs. (SHE GIVES HIM THE GLAD EYE)Why didnt you kiss the spot to make it well? You wanted to.BLOOM: (SHOCKED) Mollys best friend! Could you?MRS BREEN: (HER PULPY TONGUE BETWEEN HER LIPS, OFFERS A PIGEON KISS) Hnhn.The answer is a lemon. Have you a little present for me there?BLOOM: (OFFHANDEDLY) Kosher. A snack for supper. The home without pottedmeat is incomplete. I was at LEAH. Mrs Bandmann Palmer. Trenchant exponentof Shakespeare. Unfortunately threw away the programme. Rattling goodplace round there for pigs feet. Feel.(RICHIE GOULDING, THREE LADIES HATS PINNED ON HIS HEAD, APPEARSWEIGHTED TO ONE SIDE BY THE BLACK LEGAL BAG OF COLLIS AND WARD ONWHICH A SKULL AND CROSSBONES ARE PAINTED IN WHITE LIMEWASH. HEOPENS IT AND SHOWS IT FULL OF POLONIES, KIPPERED HERRINGS, FINDONHADDIES AND TIGHTPACKED PILLS.)RICHIE: Best value in Dub.(BALD PAT, BOTHERED BEETLE, STANDS ON THE CURBSTONE, FOLDING HISNAPKIN, WAITING TO WAIT.)PAT: (ADVANCES WITH A TILTED DISH OF SPILLSPILLING GRAVY) Steak andkidney. Bottle of lager. Hee hee hee. Wait till I wait.RICHIE: Goodgod. Inev erate inall ...(WITH HANGING HEAD HE MARCHES DOGGEDLY FORWARD THE NAVVY,LURCHING BY, GORES HIM WITH HIS FLAMING PRONGHORN.)RICHIE: (WITH A CRY OF PAIN, HIS HAND TO HIS BACK) Ah! Brights! Lights!BLOOM: (POINTS TO THE NAVVY) A spy. Dont attract attention. I hate stupidcrowds. I am not on pleasure bent. I am in a grave predicament.MRS BREEN: Humbugging and deluthering as per usual with your cock andbull story.BLOOM: I want to tell you a little secret about how I came to be here.But you must never tell. Not even Molly. I have a most particular reason.MRS BREEN: (ALL AGOG) O, not for worlds.BLOOM: Lets walk on. Shall us?MRS BREEN: Lets.(THE BAWD MAKES AN UNHEEDED SIGN. BLOOM WALKS ON WITH MRSBREEN. THE TERRIER FOLLOWS, WHINING PITEOUSLY, WAGGING HIS TAIL.)THE BAWD: Jewmans melt!BLOOM: (IN AN OATMEAL SPORTING SUIT, A SPRIG OF WOODBINE IN THE LAPEL,TONY BUFF SHIRT, SHEPHERDS PLAID SAINT ANDREWS CROSS SCARFTIE, WHITESPATS, FAWN DUSTCOAT ON HIS ARM, TAWNY RED BROGUES, FIELDGLASSES INBANDOLIER AND A GREY BILLYCOCK HAT) Do you remember a long long time,years and years ago, just after Milly, Marionette we called her, wasweaned when we all went together to Fairyhouse races, was it?MRS BREEN: (IN SMART SAXE TAILORMADE, WHITE VELOURS HAT AND SPIDER VEIL)Leopardstown.BLOOM: I mean, Leopardstown. And Molly won seven shillings on a three yearold named Nevertell and coming home along by Foxrock in that oldfiveseater shanderadan of a waggonette you were in your heyday then andyou had on that new hat of white velours with a surround of molefur thatMrs Hayes advised you to buy because it was marked down to nineteen andeleven, a bit of wire and an old rag of velveteen, and Ill lay you whatyou like she did it on purpose ...MRS BREEN: She did, of course, the cat! Dont tell me! Nice adviser!BLOOM: Because it didnt suit you one quarter as well as the other duckylittle tammy toque with the bird of paradise wing in it that I admired onyou and you honestly looked just too fetching in it though it was a pityto kill it, you cruel naughty creature, little mite of a thing with aheart the size of a fullstop.MRS BREEN: (SQUEEZES HIS ARM, SIMPERS) Naughty cruel I was!BLOOM: (LOW, SECRETLY, EVER MORE RAPIDLY) And Molly was eating a sandwich ofspiced beef out of Mrs Joe Gallahers lunch basket. Frankly, though shehad her advisers or admirers, I never cared much for her style.She was ...MRS BREEN: Too ...BLOOM: Yes. And Molly was laughing because Rogers and Maggot OReilly weremimicking a cock as we passed a farmhouse and Marcus Tertius Moses, thetea merchant, drove past us in a gig with his daughter, Dancer Moses washer name, and the poodle in her lap bridled up and you asked me if I everheard or read or knew or came across ...MRS BREEN: (EAGERLY) Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.(SHE FADES FROM HIS SIDE. FOLLOWED BY THE WHINING DOG HE WALKS ONTOWARDS HELLSGATES. IN AN ARCHWAY A STANDING WOMAN, BENT FORWARD,HER FEET APART, PISSES COWILY. OUTSIDE A SHUTTERED PUB A BUNCH OFLOITERERS LISTEN TO A TALE WHICH THEIR BROKENSNOUTED GAFFER RASPS OUTWITH RAUCOUS HUMOUR. AN ARMLESS PAIR OF THEM FLOP WRESTLING,GROWLING, IN MAIMED SODDEN PLAYFIGHT.)THE GAFFER: (CROUCHES, HIS VOICE TWISTED IN HIS SNOUT) And when Cairnscame down from the scaffolding in Beaver street what was he after doingit into only into the bucket of porter that was there waiting on theshavings for Derwans plasterers.THE LOITERERS: (GUFFAW WITH CLEFT PALATES) O jays!(THEIR PAINTSPECKLED HATS WAG. SPATTERED WITH SIZE AND LIME OF THEIRLODGES THEY FRISK LIMBLESSLY ABOUT HIM.)BLOOM: Coincidence too. They think it funny. Anything but that. Broaddaylight. Trying to walk. Lucky no woman.THE LOITERERS: Jays, thats a good one. Glauber salts. O jays, into themens porter.(BLOOM PASSES. CHEAP WHORES, SINGLY, COUPLED, SHAWLED, DISHEVELLED,CALL FROM LANES, DOORS, CORNERS.)THE WHORES:    Are you going far, queer fellow?    Hows your middle leg?    Got a match on you?    Eh, come here till I stiffen it for you.(HE PLODGES THROUGH THEIR SUMP TOWARDS THE LIGHTED STREET BEYOND.FROM A BULGE OF WINDOW CURTAINS A GRAMOPHONE REARS A BATTEREDBRAZEN TRUNK. IN THE SHADOW A SHEBEENKEEPER HAGGLES WITH THENAVVY AND THE TWO REDCOATS.)THE NAVVY: (BELCHING) Wheres the bloody house?THE SHEBEENKEEPER: Purdon street. Shilling a bottle of stout. Respectablewoman.THE NAVVY: (GRIPPING THE TWO REDCOATS, STAGGERS FORWARD WITH THEM)Come on, you British army!PRIVATE CARR: (BEHIND HIS BACK) He aint half balmy.PRIVATE COMPTON: (LAUGHS) What ho!PRIVATE CARR: (TO THE NAVVY) Portobello barracks canteen. You ask forCarr. Just Carr.THE NAVVY: (SHOUTS)    We are the boys. Of Wexford.PRIVATE COMPTON: Say! What price the sergeantmajor?PRIVATE CARR: Bennett? Hes my pal. I love old Bennett.THE NAVVY: (SHOUTS)    The galling chain.    And free our native land.(HE STAGGERS FORWARD, DRAGGING THEM WITH HIM. BLOOM STOPS, ATFAULT. THE DOG APPROACHES, HIS TONGUE OUTLOLLING, PANTING)BLOOM: Wildgoose chase this. Disorderly houses. Lord knows where they aregone. Drunks cover distance double quick. Nice mixup. Scene at Westlandrow. Then jump in first class with third ticket. Then too far. Train withengine behind. Might have taken me to Malahide or a siding for the nightor collision. Second drink does it. Once is a dose. What am I followinghim for? Still, hes the best of that lot. If I hadnt heard aboutMrs Beaufoy Purefoy I wouldnt have gone and wouldnt have met. Kismet.Hell lose that cash. Relieving office here. Good biz for cheapjacks,organs. What do ye lack? Soon got, soon gone. Might have lost mylife too with that mangongwheeltracktrolleyglarejuggernaut onlyfor presence of mind. Cant always save you, though. If I had passedTruelocks window that day two minutes later would have been shot.Absence of body. Still if bullet only went through my coat getdamages for shock, five hundred pounds. What was he? Kildare streetclub toff. God help his gamekeeper.(HE GAZES AHEAD, READING ON THE WALL A SCRAWLED CHALK LEGEND Wet DreamAND A PHALLIC DESIGN.) Odd! Molly drawing on the frosted carriagepane atKingstown. Whats that like? (GAUDY DOLLWOMEN LOLL IN THE LIGHTEDDOORWAYS, IN WINDOW EMBRASURES, SMOKING BIRDSEYE CIGARETTES. THE ODOUROF THE SICKSWEET WEED FLOATS TOWARDS HIM IN SLOW ROUND OVALLING WREATHS.)THE WREATHS: Sweet are the sweets. Sweets of sin.BLOOM: My spines a bit limp. Go or turn? And this food? Eat it and getall pigsticky. Absurd I am. Waste of money. One and eightpence too much.(THE RETRIEVER DRIVES A COLD SNIVELLING MUZZLE AGAINST HIS HAND, WAGGINGHIS TAIL.) Strange how they take to me. Even that brute today. Betterspeak to him first. Like women they like RENCONTRES. Stinks like apolecat. CHACUN SON GOUT. He might be mad. Dogdays. Uncertain in hismovements. Good fellow! Fido! Good fellow! Garryowen! (THE WOLFDOG SPRAWLSON HIS BACK, WRIGGLING OBSCENELY WITH BEGGING PAWS, HIS LONG BLACK TONGUELOLLING OUT.) Influence of his surroundings. Give and have done with it.Provided nobody. (CALLING ENCOURAGING WORDS HE SHAMBLES BACK WITH AFURTIVE POACHERS TREAD, DOGGED BY THE SETTER INTO A DARK STALESTUNKCORNER. HE UNROLLS ONE PARCEL AND GOES TO DUMP THE CRUBEEN SOFTLY BUTHOLDS BACK AND FEELS THE TROTTER.) Sizeable for threepence. But then Ihave it in my left hand. Calls for more effort. Why? Smaller from wantof use. O, let it slide. Two and six.(WITH REGRET HE LETS THE UNROLLED CRUBEEN AND TROTTER SLIDE. THEMASTIFF MAULS THE BUNDLE CLUMSILY AND GLUTS HIMSELF WITH GROWLINGGREED, CRUNCHING THE BONES. TWO RAINCAPED WATCH APPROACH, SILENT,VIGILANT. THEY MURMUR TOGETHER.)THE WATCH: Bloom. Of Bloom. For Bloom. Bloom.(EACH LAYS HAND ON BLOOMS SHOULDER.)FIRST WATCH: Caught in the act. Commit no nuisance.BLOOM: (STAMMERS) I am doing good to others.(A COVEY OF GULLS, STORM PETRELS, RISES HUNGRILY FROM LIFFEY SLIMEWITH BANBURY CAKES IN THEIR BEAKS.)THE GULLS: Kaw kave kankury kake.BLOOM: The friend of man. Trained by kindness.(HE POINTS. BOB DORAN, TOPPLING FROM A HIGH BARSTOOL, SWAYS OVERTHE MUNCHING SPANIEL.)BOB DORAN: Towser. Give us the paw. Give the paw.(THE BULLDOG GROWLS, HIS SCRUFF STANDING, A GOBBET OF PIGS KNUCKLEBETWEEN HIS MOLARS THROUGH WHICH RABID SCUMSPITTLE DRIBBLES BOBDORAN FILLS SILENTLY INTO AN AREA.)SECOND WATCH: Prevention of cruelty to animals.BLOOM: (ENTHUSIASTICALLY) A noble work! I scolded that tramdriver onHarolds cross bridge for illusing the poor horse with his harness scab.Bad French I got for my pains. Of course it was frosty and the last tram.All tales of circus life are highly demoralising.(SIGNOR MAFFEI, PASSIONPALE, IN LIONTAMERS COSTUME WITH DIAMONDSTUDS IN HIS SHIRTFRONT, STEPS FORWARD, HOLDING A CIRCUS PAPERHOOP, ACURLING CARRIAGEWHIP AND A REVOLVER WITH WHICH HE COVERS THEGORGING BOARHOUND.)SIGNOR MAFFEI: (WITH A SINISTER SMILE) Ladies and gentlemen, my educatedgreyhound. It was I broke in the bucking broncho Ajax with my patentspiked saddle for carnivores. Lash under the belly with a knotted thong.Block tackle and a strangling pulley will bring your lion to heel, nomatter how fractious, even LEO FEROX there, the Libyan maneater. A redhotcrowbar and some liniment rubbing on the burning part produced Fritz ofAmsterdam, the thinking hyena. (HE GLARES) I possess the Indian sign.The glint of my eye does it with these breastsparklers. (WITH A BEWITCHINGSMILE) I now introduce Mademoiselle Ruby, the pride of the ring.FIRST WATCH: Come. Name and address.BLOOM: I have forgotten for the moment. Ah, yes! (HE TAKES OFF HIS HIGHGRADE HAT, SALUTING) Dr Bloom, Leopold, dental surgeon. You have heard ofvon Blum Pasha. Umpteen millions. DONNERWETTER! Owns half Austria. Egypt.Cousin.FIRST WATCH: Proof.(A CARD FALLS FROM INSIDE THE LEATHER HEADBAND OF BLOOMS HAT.)BLOOM: (IN RED FEZ, CADIS DRESS COAT WITH BROAD GREEN SASH, WEARING AFALSE BADGE OF THE LEGION OF HONOUR, PICKS UP THE CARD HASTILY AND OFFERSIT) Allow me. My club is the Junior Army and Navy. Solicitors: Messrs JohnHenry Menton,  Bachelors Walk.FIRST WATCH: (READS) Henry Flower. No fixed abode. Unlawfully watching andbesetting.SECOND WATCH: An alibi. You are cautioned.BLOOM: (PRODUCES FROM HIS HEARTPOCKET A CRUMPLED YELLOW FLOWER) This is theflower in question. It was given me by a man I dont know his name.(PLAUSIBLY) You know that old joke, rose of Castile. Bloom. The change ofname. Virag. (HE MURMURS PRIVATELY AND CONFIDENTIALLY) We are engagedyou see, sergeant. Lady in the case. Love entanglement. (HE SHOULDERS THESECOND WATCH GENTLY) Dash it all. Its a way we gallants have in the navy.Uniform that does it. (he turns gravely to the first watch) Still, ofcourse, you do get your Waterloo sometimes. Drop in some evening and havea glass of old Burgundy. (TO THE SECOND WATCH GAILY) Ill introduce you,inspector. Shes game. Do it in the shake of a lambs tail.(A DARK MERCURIALISED FACE APPEARS, LEADING A VEILED FIGURE.)THE DARK MERCURY: The Castle is looking for him. He was drummed out ofthe army.MARTHA: (THICKVEILED, A CRIMSON HALTER ROUND HER NECK, A COPY OF THEIRISH TIMES IN HER HAND, IN TONE OF REPROACH, POINTING) Henry! Leopold!Lionel, thou lost one! Clear my name.FIRST WATCH: (STERNLY) Come to the station.BLOOM: (SCARED, HATS HIMSELF, STEPS BACK, THEN, PLUCKING AT HIS HEART ANDLIFTING HIS RIGHT FOREARM ON THE SQUARE, HE GIVES THE SIGN AND DUEGUARD OFFELLOWCRAFT) No, no, worshipful master, light of love. Mistaken identity.The Lyons mail. Lesurques and Dubosc. You remember the Childs fratricidecase. We medical men. By striking him dead with a hatchet. I am wrongfullyaccused. Better one guilty escape than ninetynine wrongfully condemned.MARTHA: (SOBBING BEHIND HER VEIL) Breach of promise. My real name is PeggyGriffin. He wrote to me that he was miserable. Ill tell my brother, theBective rugger fullback, on you, heartless flirt.BLOOM: (BEHIND HIS HAND) Shes drunk. The woman is inebriated. (HE MURMURSVAGUELY THE PASS OF EPHRAIM) Shitbroleeth.SECOND WATCH: (TEARS IN HIS EYES, TO BLOOM) You ought to be thoroughlywell ashamed of yourself.BLOOM: Gentlemen of the jury, let me explain. A pure mares nest. I am aman misunderstood. I am being made a scapegoat of. I am a respectablemarried man, without a stain on my character. I live in Eccles street.My wife, I am the daughter of a most distinguished commander, a gallantupstanding gentleman, what do you call him, Majorgeneral Brian Tweedy,one of Britains fighting men who helped to win our battles. Got hismajority for the heroic defence of Rorkes Drift.FIRST WATCH: Regiment.BLOOM: (TURNS TO THE GALLERY) The royal Dublins, boys, the salt of theearth, known the world over. I think I see some old comrades in arms upthere among you. The R. D. F., with our own Metropolitan police, guardiansof our homes, the pluckiest lads and the finest body of men, as physique,in the service of our sovereign.A VOICE: Turncoat! Up the Boers! Who booed Joe Chamberlain?BLOOM: (HIS HAND ON THE SHOULDER OF THE FIRST WATCH) My old dad too was aJ. P. Im as staunch a Britisher as you are, sir. I fought with thecolours for king and country in the absentminded war under general Goughin the park and was disabled at Spion Kop and Bloemfontein, was mentionedin dispatches. I did all a white man could. (WITH QUIET FEELING) JimBludso. Hold her nozzle again the bank.FIRST WATCH: Profession or trade.BLOOM: Well, I follow a literary occupation, author-journalist. In fact weare just bringing out a collection of prize stories of which I am theinventor, something that is an entirely new departure. I am connectedwith the British and Irish press. If you ring up ...(MYLES CRAWFORD STRIDES OUT JERKILY, A QUILL BETWEEN HIS TEETH. HISSCARLET BEAK BLAZES WITHIN THE AUREOLE OF HIS STRAW HAT HE DANGLES AHANK OF SPANISH ONIONS IN ONE HAND AND HOLDS WITH THE OTHER HANDA TELEPHONE RECEIVER NOZZLE TO HIS EAR.)MYLES CRAWFORD: (HIS COCKS WATTLES WAGGING) Hello, seventyseveneightfour. Hello. FREEMANS URINAL and WEEKLY ARSEWIPE here. ParalyseEurope. You which? Bluebags? Who writes? Is it Bloom?(MR PHILIP BEAUFOY, PALEFACED, STANDS IN THE WITNESSBOX, IN ACCURATEMORNING DRESS, OUTBREAST POCKET WITH PEAK OF HANDKERCHIEFSHOWING, CREASED LAVENDER TROUSERS AND PATENT BOOTS. HE CARRIES ALARGE PORTFOLIO LABELLED Matchams Masterstrokes.)BEAUFOY: (DRAWLS) No, you arent. Not by a long shot if I know it. I dontsee it thats all. No born gentleman, no-one with the most rudimentarypromptings of a gentleman would stoop to such particularly loathsomeconduct. One of those, my lord. A plagiarist. A soapy sneak masqueradingas a litterateur. Its perfectly obvious that with the most inherentbaseness he has cribbed some of my bestselling copy, really gorgeousstuff, a perfect gem, the love passages in which are beneath suspicion.The Beaufoy books of love and great possessions, with which your lordshipis doubtless familiar, are a household word throughout the kingdom.BLOOM: (MURMURS WITH HANGDOG MEEKNESS GLUM) That bit about the laughingwitch hand in hand I take exception to, if I may ...BEAUFOY: (HIS LIP UPCURLED, SMILES SUPERCILIOUSLY ON THE COURT) You funnyass, you! Youre too beastly awfully weird for words! I dont think youneed over excessively disincommodate yourself in that regard. My literaryagent Mr J. B. Pinker is in attendance. I presume, my lord, we shallreceive the usual witnesses fees, shant we? We are considerably out ofpocket over this bally pressman johnny, this jackdaw of Rheims, who hasnot even been to a university.BLOOM: (INDISTINCTLY) University of life. Bad art.BEAUFOY: (SHOUTS) Its a damnably foul lie, showing the moral rottennessof the man! (HE EXTENDS HIS PORTFOLIO) We have here damning evidence, thecorpus delicti, my lord, a specimen of my maturer work disfigured by thehallmark of the beast.A VOICE FROM THE GALLERY:    Moses, Moses, king of the jews,    Wiped his arse in the Daily News.BLOOM: (BRAVELY) Overdrawn.BEAUFOY: You low cad! You ought to be ducked in the horsepond, you rotter!(TO THE COURT) Why, look at the mans private life! Leading a quadrupleexistence! Street angel and house devil. Not fit to be mentioned in mixedsociety! The archconspirator of the age!BLOOM: (TO THE COURT) And he, a bachelor, how ...FIRST WATCH: The King versus Bloom. Call the woman Driscoll.THE CRIER: Mary Driscoll, scullerymaid!(MARY DRISCOLL, A SLIPSHOD SERVANT GIRL, APPROACHES. SHE HAS ABUCKET ON THE CROOK OF HER ARM AND A SCOURINGBRUSH IN HER HAND.)SECOND WATCH: Another! Are you of the unfortunate class?MARY DRISCOLL: (INDIGNANTLY) Im not a bad one. I bear a respectablecharacter and was four months in my last place. I was in a situation,six pounds a year and my chances with Fridays out and I had to leave owingto his carryings on.FIRST WATCH: What do you tax him with?MARY DRISCOLL: He made a certain suggestion but I thought more of myselfas poor as I am.BLOOM: (IN HOUSEJACKET OF RIPPLECLOTH, FLANNEL TROUSERS, HEELLESS SLIPPERS,UNSHAVEN, HIS HAIR RUMPLED: SOFTLY) I treated you white. I gave youmementos, smart emerald garters far above your station. Incautiously Itook your part when you were accused of pilfering. Theres a medium in allthings. Play cricket.MARY DRISCOLL: (EXCITEDLY) As God is looking down on me this night if everI laid a hand to them oysters!FIRST WATCH: The offence complained of? Did something happen?MARY DRISCOLL: He surprised me in the rere of the premises, Your honour,when the missus was out shopping one morning with a request for a safety pin.He held me and I was discoloured in four places as a result. And heinterfered twict with my clothing.BLOOM: She counterassaulted.MARY DRISCOLL: (SCORNFULLY) I had more respect for the scouringbrush, so Ihad. I remonstrated with him, Your lord, and he remarked: keep it quiet.(GENERAL LAUGHTER.)GEORGE FOTTRELL: (CLERK OF THE CROWN AND PEACE, RESONANTLY) Order incourt! The accused will now make a bogus statement.(BLOOM, PLEADING NOT GUILTY AND HOLDING A FULLBLOWN WATERLILY,BEGINS A LONG UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH. THEY WOULD HEAR WHAT COUNSELHAD TO SAY IN HIS STIRRING ADDRESS TO THE GRAND JURY. HE WAS DOWNAND OUT BUT, THOUGH BRANDED AS A BLACK SHEEP, IF HE MIGHT SAY SO, HEMEANT TO REFORM, TO RETRIEVE THE MEMORY OF THE PAST IN A PURELYSISTERLY WAY AND RETURN TO NATURE AS A PURELY DOMESTIC ANIMAL. ASEVENMONTHS CHILD, HE HAD BEEN CAREFULLY BROUGHT UP AND NURTUREDBY AN AGED BEDRIDDEN PARENT. THERE MIGHT HAVE BEEN LAPSES OF ANERRING FATHER BUT HE WANTED TO TURN OVER A NEW LEAF AND NOW, WHENAT LONG LAST IN SIGHT OF THE WHIPPING POST, TO LEAD A HOMELY LIFE IN THEEVENING OF HIS DAYS, PERMEATED BY THE AFFECTIONATE SURROUNDINGS OFTHE HEAVING BOSOM OF THE FAMILY. AN ACCLIMATISED BRITISHER, HE HADSEEN THAT SUMMER EVE FROM THE FOOTPLATE OF AN ENGINE CAB OF THELOOP LINE RAILWAY COMPANY WHILE THE RAIN REFRAINED FROM FALLINGGLIMPSES, AS IT WERE, THROUGH THE WINDOWS OF LOVEFUL HOUSEHOLDS INDUBLIN CITY AND URBAN DISTRICT OF SCENES TRULY RURAL OF HAPPINESS OFTHE BETTER LAND WITH DOCKRELLS WALLPAPER AT ONE AND NINEPENCE ADOZEN, INNOCENT BRITISHBORN BAIRNS LISPING PRAYERS TO THE SACREDINFANT, YOUTHFUL SCHOLARS GRAPPLING WITH THEIR PENSUMS OR MODELYOUNG LADIES PLAYING ON THE PIANOFORTE OR ANON ALL WITH FERVOURRECITING THE FAMILY ROSARY ROUND THE CRACKLING YULELOG WHILE IN THEBOREENS AND GREEN LANES THE COLLEENS WITH THEIR SWAINS STROLLED WHATTIMES THE STRAINS OF THE ORGANTONED MELODEON BRITANNIAMETALBOUNDWITH FOUR ACTING STOPS AND TWELVEFOLD BELLOWS, A SACRIFICE, GREATESTBARGAIN EVER ...(RENEWED LAUGHTER. HE MUMBLES INCOHERENTLY. REPORTERS COMPLAINTHAT THEY CANNOT HEAR.)LONGHAND AND SHORTHAND: (WITHOUT LOOKING UP FROM THEIR NOTEBOOKS)Loosen his boots.PROFESSOR MACHUGH: (FROM THE PRESSTABLE, COUGHS AND CALLS) Cough it up,man. Get it out in bits.(THE CROSSEXAMINATION PROCEEDS  RE  BLOOM AND THE BUCKET. A LARGEBUCKET. BLOOM HIMSELF. BOWEL TROUBLE. IN BEAVER STREET GRIPE, YES.QUITE BAD. A PLASTERERS BUCKET. BY WALKING STIFFLEGGED. SUFFEREDUNTOLD MISERY. DEADLY AGONY. ABOUT NOON. LOVE OR BURGUNDY. YES,SOME SPINACH. CRUCIAL MOMENT. HE DID NOT LOOK IN THE BUCKETNOBODY. RATHER A MESS. NOT COMPLETELY. A Titbits BACK NUMBER.)UPROAR AND CATCALLS. BLOOM IN A TORN FROCKCOAT STAINED WITHWHITEWASH, DINGED SILK HAT SIDEWAYS ON HIS HEAD, A STRIP OFSTICKINGPLASTER ACROSS HIS NOSE, TALKS INAUDIBLY.)J. J. OMOLLOY: (IN BARRISTERS GREY WIG AND STUFFGOWN, SPEAKING WITH AVOICE OF PAINED PROTEST) This is no place for indecent levity at theexpense of an erring mortal disguised in liquor. We are not in a beargardennor at an Oxford rag nor is this a travesty of justice. My client is aninfant, a poor foreign immigrant who started scratch as a stowaway and isnow trying to turn an honest penny. The trumped up misdemeanour was due toa momentary aberration of heredity, brought on by hallucination, suchfamiliarities as the alleged guilty occurrence being quite permitted in myclients native place, the land of the Pharaoh. PRIMA FACIE, I put it toyou that there was no attempt at carnally knowing. Intimacy did not occurand the offence complained of by Driscoll, that her virtue was solicited,was not repeated. I would deal in especial with atavism. There have beencases of shipwreck and somnambulism in my clients family. If the accusedcould speak he could a tale unfold--one of the strangest that have ever beennarrated between the covers of a book. He himself, my lord, is a physicalwreck from cobblers weak chest. His submission is that he is of Mongolianextraction and irresponsible for his actions. Not all there, in fact.BLOOM: (BAREFOOT, PIGEONBREASTED, IN LASCARS VEST AND TROUSERS, APOLOGETICTOES TURNED IN, OPENS HIS TINY MOLES EYES AND LOOKS ABOUT HIM DAZEDLY,PASSING A SLOW HAND ACROSS HIS FOREHEAD. THEN HE HITCHES HIS BELT SAILORFASHION AND WITH A SHRUG OF ORIENTAL OBEISANCE SALUTES THE COURT, POINTINGONE THUMB HEAVENWARD.) Him makee velly muchee fine night. (HE BEGINS TOLILT SIMPLY)    Li li poo lil chile    Blingee pigfoot evly night    Payee two shilly ...(HE IS HOWLED DOWN.)J. J. OMOLLOY: (HOTLY TO THE POPULACE) This is a lonehand fight. By Hades,I will not have any client of mine gagged and badgered in this fashion bya pack of curs and laughing hyenas. The Mosaic code has superseded the lawof the jungle. I say it and I say it emphatically, without wishing for onemoment to defeat the ends of justice, accused was not accessory before theact and prosecutrix has not been tampered with. The young person was treatedby defendant as if she were his very own daughter. (BLOOM TAKES J. J.OMOLLOYS HAND AND RAISES IT TO HIS LIPS.) I shall call rebutting evidenceto prove up to the hilt that the hidden hand is again at its old game.When in doubt persecute Bloom. My client, an innately bashful man, wouldbe the last man in the world to do anything ungentlemanly which injuredmodesty could object to or cast a stone at a girl who took the wrongturning when some dastard, responsible for her condition, had worked hisown sweet will on her. He wants to go straight. I regard him as thewhitest man I know. He is down on his luck at present owing to themortgaging of his extensive property at Agendath Netaim in faraway AsiaMinor, slides of which will now be shown. (to Bloom) I suggest that youwill do the handsome thing.BLOOM: A penny in the pound.(THE IMAGE OF THE LAKE OF KINNERETH WITH BLURRED CATTLE CROPPING INSILVER HAZE IS PROJECTED ON THE WALL. MOSES DLUGACZ, FERRETEYEDALBINO, IN BLUE DUNGAREES, STANDS UP IN THE GALLERY, HOLDING IN EACHHAND AN ORANGE CITRON AND A PORK KIDNEY.)DLUGACZ: (HOARSELY) Bleibtreustrasse, Berlin, W..(J. J. OMOLLOY STEPS ON TO A LOW PLINTH AND HOLDS THE LAPEL OF HISCOAT WITH SOLEMNITY. HIS FACE LENGTHENS, GROWS PALE AND BEARDED,WITH SUNKEN EYES, THE BLOTCHES OF PHTHISIS AND HECTIC CHEEKBONES OFJOHN F. TAYLOR. HE APPLIES HIS HANDKERCHIEF TO HIS MOUTH ANDSCRUTINISES THE GALLOPING TIDE OF ROSEPINK BLOOD.)J.J.OMOLLOY: (ALMOST VOICELESSLY) Excuse me. I am suffering from a severechill, have recently come from a sickbed. A few wellchosen words.(HE ASSUMES THE AVINE HEAD, FOXY MOUSTACHE AND PROBOSCIDAL ELOQUENCE OFSEYMOUR BUSHE.) When the angels book comes to be opened if aught thatthe pensive bosom has inaugurated of soultransfigured and ofsoultransfiguring deserves to live I say accord the prisoner at the barthe sacred benefit of the doubt. (A PAPER WITH SOMETHING WRITTEN ON IT ISHANDED INTO COURT.)BLOOM: (IN COURT DRESS) Can give best references. Messrs Callan, Coleman.Mr Wisdom Hely J. P. My old chief Joe Cuffe. Mr V. B. Dillon, ex lord mayorof Dublin. I have moved in the charmed circle of the highest ... Queensof Dublin society. (CARELESSLY) I was just chatting this afternoon at theviceregal lodge to my old pals, sir Robert and lady Ball, astronomer royalat the levee. Sir Bob, I said ...MRS YELVERTON BARRY: (IN LOWCORSAGED OPAL BALLDRESS AND ELBOWLENGTH IVORYGLOVES, WEARING A SABLETRIMMED BRICKQUILTED DOLMAN, A COMB OF BRILLIANTSAND PANACHE OF OSPREY IN HER HAIR) Arrest him, constable. He wrote me ananonymous letter in prentice backhand when my husband was in the NorthRiding of Tipperary on the Munster circuit, signed James Lovebirch. He saidthat he had seen from the gods my peerless globes as I sat in a box of theTHEATRE ROYAL at a command performance of LA CIGALE. I deeply inflamed him,he said. He made improper overtures to me to misconduct myself at half pastfour p.m. on the following Thursday, Dunsink time. He offered to send methrough the post a work of fiction by Monsieur Paul de Kock, entitled TheGIRL WITH THE THREE PAIRS OF STAYS.MRS BELLINGHAM: (IN CAP AND SEAL CONEY MANTLE, WRAPPED UP TO THE NOSE,STEPS OUT OF HER BROUGHAM AND SCANS THROUGH TORTOISESHELL QUIZZING-GLASSESWHICH SHE TAKES FROM INSIDE HER HUGE OPOSSUM MUFF) Also to me. Yes, Ibelieve it is the same objectionable person. Because he closed my carriagedoor outside sir Thornley Stokers one sleety day during the cold snap ofFebruary ninetythree when even the grid of the wastepipe and the ballstopin my bath cistern were frozen. Subsequently he enclosed a bloom of edelweissculled on the heights, as he said, in my honour. I had it examinedby a botanical expert and elicited the information that it was ablossom ofthe homegrown potato plant purloined from a forcingcase of the model farm.MRS YELVERTON BARRY: Shame on him!(A CROWD OF SLUTS AND RAGAMUFFINS SURGES FORWARD)THE SLUTS AND RAGAMUFFINS: (SCREAMING) Stop thief! Hurrah there,Bluebeard! Three cheers for Ikey Mo!SECOND WATCH: (PRODUCES HANDCUFFS) Here are the darbies.MRS BELLINGHAM: He addressed me in several handwritings with fulsomecompliments as a Venus in furs and alleged profound pity for my frostboundcoachman Palmer while in the same breath he expressed himself as envious ofhis earflaps and fleecy sheepskins and of his fortunate proximity to myperson, when standing behind my chair wearing my livery and the armorialbearings of the Bellingham escutcheon garnished sable, a bucks headcouped or. He lauded almost extravagantly my nether extremities, myswelling calves in silk hose drawn up to the limit, and eulogised glowinglymy other hidden treasures in priceless lace which, he said, he could conjureup. He urged me (stating that he felt it his mission in life to urge me) todefile the marriage bed, to commit adultery at the earliest possibleopportunity.THE HONOURABLE MRS MERVYN TALBOYS: (IN AMAZON COSTUME, HARD HAT, JACKBOOTSCOCKSPURRED, VERMILION WAISTCOAT, FAWN MUSKETEER GAUNTLETS WITHBRAIDED DRUMS, LONG TRAIN HELD UP AND HUNTING CROP WITH WHICHSHE STRIKES HER WELT CONSTANTLY) Also me. Because he saw me onthe polo ground of the Phoenix park at the match All Ireland versusthe Rest of Ireland. My eyes, I know, shone divinely as I watchedCaptain Slogger Dennehy of the Inniskillings win the final chukkar on hisdarling cob CENTAUR. This plebeian Don Juan observed me from behind ahackney car and sent me in double envelopes an obscene photograph, suchas are sold after dark on Paris boulevards, insulting to any lady. I have itstill. It represents a partially nude senorita, frail and lovely (HIS WIFE,AS HE SOLEMNLY ASSURED ME, TAKEN BY HIM FROM NATURE), practising illicitintercourse with a muscular torero, evidently a blackguard. He urged me todo likewise, to misbehave, to sin with officers of the garrison. He imploredme to soil his letter in an unspeakable manner, to chastise him as he richlydeserves, to bestride and ride him, to give him a most vicioushorsewhipping.MRS BELLINGHAM: Me too.MRS YELVERTON BARRY: Me too.(SEVERAL HIGHLY RESPECTABLE DUBLIN LADIES HOLD UP IMPROPER LETTERSRECEIVED FROM BLOOM.)THE HONOURABLE MRS MERVYN TALBOYS: (STAMPS HER JINGLING SPURS IN A SUDDENPAROXYSM OF FURY) I will, by the God above me. Ill scourge thepigeonlivered cur as long as I can stand over him. Ill flay him alive.BLOOM: (his eyes closing, quails expectantly) Here? (HE SQUIRMS) Again!(HE PANTS CRINGING) I love the danger.THE HONOURABLE MRS MERVYN TALBOYS: Very much so! Ill make it hot for you.Ill make you dance Jack Latten for that.MRS BELLINGHAM: Tan his breech well, the upstart! Write the stars andstripes on it!MRS YELVERTON BARRY: Disgraceful! Theres no excuse for him! A married man!BLOOM: All these people. I meant only the spanking idea. A warm tinglingglow without effusion. Refined birching to stimulate the circulation.THE HONOURABLE MRS MERVYN TALBOYS: (LAUGHS DERISIVELY) O, did you, my finefellow? Well, by the living God, youll get the surprise of your life now,believe me, the most unmerciful hiding a man ever bargained for. You havelashed the dormant tigress in my nature into fury.MRS BELLINGHAM: (SHAKES HER MUFF AND QUIZZING-GLASSES VINDICTIVELY) Makehim smart, Hanna dear. Give him ginger. Thrash the mongrel within an inchof his life. The cat-o-nine-tails. Geld him. Vivisect him.BLOOM: (SHUDDERING, SHRINKING, JOINS HIS HANDS: WITH HANGDOG MIEN) O cold!O shivery! It was your ambrosial beauty. Forget, forgive. Kismet. Let me offthis once. (HE OFFERS THE OTHER CHEEK)MRS YELVERTON BARRY: (SEVERELY) Dont do so on any account, Mrs Talboys!He should be soundly trounced!THE HONOURABLE MRS MERVYN TALBOYS: (UNBUTTONING HER GAUNTLET VIOLENTLY)Ill do no such thing. Pigdog and always was ever since he was pupped!To dare address me! Ill flog him black and blue in the public streets.Ill dig my spurs in him up to the rowel. He is a wellknown cuckold.(SHE SWISHES HER HUNTINGCROP SAVAGELY IN THE AIR) Take down his trouserswithout loss of time. Come here, sir! Quick! Ready?BLOOM: (TREMBLING, BEGINNING TO OBEY) The weather has been so warm.(DAVY STEPHENS, RINGLETTED, PASSES WITH A BEVY OF BAREFOOT NEWSBOYS.)DAVY STEPHENS: MESSENGER OF THE SACRED HEART and EVENING TELEGRAPH withSaint Patricks Day supplement. Containing the new addresses of all thecuckolds in Dublin.(THE VERY REVEREND CANON OHANLON IN CLOTH OF GOLD COPE ELEVATESAND EXPOSES A MARBLE TIMEPIECE. BEFORE HIM FATHER CONROY AND THEREVEREND JOHN HUGHES S.J. BEND LOW.)THE TIMEPIECE: (UNPORTALLING)    Cuckoo.    Cuckoo.    Cuckoo.(THE BRASS QUOITS OF A BED ARE HEARD TO JINGLE.)THE QUOITS: Jigjag. Jigajiga. Jigjag.(A PANEL OF FOG ROLLS BACK RAPIDLY, REVEALING RAPIDLY IN THE JURYBOXTHE FACES OF MARTIN CUNNINGHAM, FOREMAN, SILKHATTED, JACK POWER,SIMON DEDALUS, TOM KERNAN, NED LAMBERT, JOHN HENRY MENTONMYLES CRAWFORD, LENEHAN, PADDY LEONARD, NOSEY FLYNN, MCOYAND THE FEATURELESS FACE OF A NAMELESS ONE.)THE NAMELESS ONE: Bareback riding. Weight for age. Gob, he organised her.THE JURORS: (ALL THEIR HEADS TURNED TO HIS VOICE) Really?THE NAMELESS ONE: (SNARLS) Arse over tip. Hundred shillings to five.THE JURORS: (ALL THEIR HEADS LOWERED IN ASSENT) Most of us thought as much.FIRST WATCH: He is a marked man. Another girls plait cut. Wanted:Jack the Ripper. A thousand pounds reward.SECOND WATCH: (AWED, WHISPERS) And in black. A mormon. Anarchist.THE CRIER: (LOUDLY) Whereas Leopold Bloom of no fixed abode is a wellknowndynamitard, forger, bigamist, bawd and cuckold and a public nuisance tothe citizens of Dublin and whereas at this commission of assizes the mosthonourable ...(HIS HONOUR, SIR FREDERICK FALKINER, RECORDER OF DUBLIN, IN JUDICIALGARB OF GREY STONE RISES FROM THE BENCH, STONEBEARDED. HE BEARS INHIS ARMS AN UMBRELLA SCEPTRE. FROM HIS FOREHEAD ARISE STARKLY THEMOSAIC RAMSHORNS.)THE RECORDER: I will put an end to this white slave traffic and rid Dublinof this odious pest. Scandalous! (HE DONS THE BLACK CAP) Let him be taken,Mr Subsheriff, from the dock where he now stands and detained in custodyin Mountjoy prison during His Majestys pleasure and there be hanged bythe neck until he is dead and therein fail not at your peril or may theLord have mercy on your soul. Remove him. (A BLACK SKULLCAP DESCENDS UPONHIS HEAD.)(THE SUBSHERIFF LONG JOHN FANNING APPEARS, SMOKING A PUNGENT HENRY CLAY.)LONG JOHN FANNING: (SCOWLS AND CALLS WITH RICH ROLLING UTTERANCE) Whollhang Judas Iscariot?(H. RUMBOLD, MASTER BARBER, IN A BLOODCOLOURED JERKIN ANDTANNERS APRON, A ROPE COILED OVER HIS SHOULDER, MOUNTS THE BLOCK. ALIFE PRESERVER AND A NAILSTUDDED BLUDGEON ARE STUCK IN HIS BELT HERUBS GRIMLY HIS GRAPPLING HANDS, KNOBBED WITH KNUCKLEDUSTERS.)RUMBOLD: (TO THE RECORDER WITH SINISTER FAMILIARITY) Hanging Harry, yourMajesty, the Mersey terror. Five guineas a jugular. Neck or nothing.(THE BELLS OF GEORGES CHURCH TOLL SLOWLY, LOUD DARK IRON.)THE BELLS: Heigho! Heigho!BLOOM: (DESPERATELY) Wait. Stop. Gulls. Good heart. I saw. Innocence. Girlin the monkeyhouse. Zoo. Lewd chimpanzee. (BREATHLESSLY) Pelvic basin. Herartless blush unmanned me. (OVERCOME WITH EMOTION) I left the precincts.(HE TURNS TO A FIGURE IN THE CROWD, APPEALING) Hynes, may I speak to you?You know me. That three shillings you can keep. If you want a littlemore ...HYNES: (COLDLY) You are a perfect stranger.SECOND WATCH: (POINTS TO THE CORNER) The bomb is here.FIRST WATCH: Infernal machine with a time fuse.BLOOM: No, no. Pigs feet. I was at a funeral.FIRST WATCH: (DRAWS HIS TRUNCHEON) Liar!(THE BEAGLE LIFTS HIS SNOUT, SHOWING THE GREY SCORBUTIC FACE OFPADDY DIGNAM. HE HAS GNAWED ALL. HE EXHALES A PUTRID CARCASEFEDBREATH. HE GROWS TO HUMAN SIZE AND SHAPE. HIS DACHSHUND COATBECOMES A BROWN MORTUARY HABIT HIS GREEN EYE FLASHES BLOODSHOTHALF OF ONE EAR, ALL THE NOSE AND BOTH THUMBS ARE GHOULEATEN.)PADDY DIGNAM: (IN A HOLLOW VOICE) It is true. It was my funeral. DoctorFinucane pronounced life extinct when I succumbed to the disease fromnatural causes.(HE LIFTS HIS MUTILATED ASHEN FACE MOONWARDS AND BAYS LUGUBRIOUSLY.)BLOOM: (IN TRIUMPH) You hear?PADDY DIGNAM: Bloom, I am Paddy Dignams spirit. List, list, O list!BLOOM: The voice is the voice of Esau.SECOND WATCH: (BLESSES HIMSELF) How is that possible?FIRST WATCH: It is not in the penny catechism.PADDY DIGNAM: By metempsychosis. Spooks.A VOICE: O rocks.PADDY DIGNAM: (EARNESTLY) Once I was in the employ of Mr J. H. Menton,solicitor, commissioner for oaths and affidavits, of  Bachelors Walk.Now I am defunct, the wall of the heart hypertrophied. Hard lines. Thepoor wife was awfully cut up. How is she bearing it? Keep her off thatbottle of sherry. (HE LOOKS ROUND HIM) A lamp. I must satisfy an animalneed. That buttermilk didnt agree with me.(THE PORTLY FIGURE OF JOHN OCONNELL, CARETAKER, STANDS FORTH,HOLDING A BUNCH OF KEYS TIED WITH CRAPE. BESIDE HIM STANDS FATHERCOFFEY, CHAPLAIN, TOADBELLIED, WRYNECKED, IN A SURPLICE ANDBANDANNA NIGHTCAP, HOLDING SLEEPILY A STAFF TWISTED POPPIES.)FATHER COFFEY: (YAWNS, THEN CHANTS WITH A HOARSE CROAK) Namine. Jacobs.Vobiscuits. Amen.JOHN OCONNELL: (FOGHORNS STORMILY THROUGH HIS MEGAPHONE) Dignam,Patrick T, deceased.PADDY DIGNAM: (WITH PRICKED UP EARS, WINCES) Overtones. (HE WRIGGLESFORWARD AND PLACES AN EAR TO THE GROUND) My masters voice!JOHN OCONNELL: Burial docket letter number U. P. eightyfive thousand.Field seventeen. House of Keys. Plot, one hundred and one.(PADDY DIGNAM LISTENS WITH VISIBLE EFFORT, THINKING, HIS TAILSTIFFPOINTCD, HIS EARS COCKED.)PADDY DIGNAM: Pray for the repose of his soul.(HE WORMS DOWN THROUGH A COALHOLE, HIS BROWN HABIT TRAILING ITSTETHER OVER RATTLING PEBBLES. AFTER HIM TODDLES AN OBESE GRANDFATHERRAT ON FUNGUS TURTLE PAWS UNDER A GREY CARAPACE. DIGNAMS VOICE,MUFFLED, IS HEARD BAYING UNDER GROUND: Dignams dead and gonebelow. TOM ROCHFORD, ROBINREDBREASTED, IN CAP AND BREECHES,JUMPS FROM HIS TWOCOLUMNED MACHINE.)TOM ROCHFORD: (A HAND TO HIS BREASTBONE, BOWS) Reuben J. A florin I findhim. (HE FIXES THE MANHOLE WITH A RESOLUTE STARE) My turn now on. Followme up to Carlow.(HE EXECUTES A DAREDEVIL SALMON LEAP IN THE AIR AND IS ENGULFED INTHE COALHOLE. TWO DISCS ON THE COLUMNS WOBBLE, EYES OF NOUGHT ALLRECEDES. BLOOM PLODGES FORWARD AGAIN THROUGH THE SUMP. KISSESCHIRP AMID THE RIFTS OF FOG A PIANO SOUNDS. HE STANDS BEFORE ALIGHTED HOUSE, LISTENING. THE KISSES, WINGING FROM THEIR BOWERS FLYABOUT HIM, TWITTERING, WARBLING, COOING.)THE KISSES: (WARBLING) Leo! (TWITTERING) Icky licky micky sticky for Leo!(COOING) Coo coocoo! Yummyyum, Womwom! (WARBLING) Big comebig! Pirouette!Leopopold! (TWITTERING) Leeolee! (WARBLING) O Leo!(THEY RUSTLE, FLUTTER UPON HIS GARMENTS, ALIGHT, BRIGHT GIDDY FLECKS,SILVERY SEQUINS.)BLOOM: A mans touch. Sad music. Church music. Perhaps here.(ZOE HIGGINS, A YOUNG WHORE IN A SAPPHIRE SLIP, CLOSED WITH THREEBRONZE BUCKLES, A SLIM BLACK VELVET FILLET ROUND HER THROAT, NODS,TRIPS DOWN THE STEPS AND ACCOSTS HIM.)ZOE: Are you looking for someone? Hes inside with his friend.BLOOM: Is this Mrs Macks?ZOE: No, eightyone. Mrs Cohens. You might go farther and fare worse. MotherSlipperslapper. (FAMILIARLY) Shes on the job herself tonight with the vether tipster that gives her all the winners and pays for her son in Oxford.Working overtime but her lucks turned today. (SUSPICIOUSLY) Youre nothis father, are you?BLOOM: Not I!ZOE: You both in black. Has little mousey any tickles tonight?(HIS SKIN, ALERT, FEELS HER FINGERTIPS APPROACH. A HAND GLIDES OVERHIS LEFT THIGH.)ZOE: Hows the nuts?BLOOM: Off side. Curiously they are on the right. Heavier, I suppose.One in a million my tailor, Mesias, says.ZOE: (IN SUDDEN ALARM) Youve a hard chancre.BLOOM: Not likely.ZOE: I feel it.(HER HAND SLIDES INTO HIS LEFT TROUSER POCKET AND BRINGS OUT A HARDBLACK SHRIVELLED POTATO. SHE REGARDS IT AND BLOOM WITH DUMB MOISTLIPS.)BLOOM: A talisman. Heirloom.ZOE: For Zoe? For keeps? For being so nice, eh?(SHE PUTS THE POTATO GREEDILY INTO A POCKET THEN LINKS HIS ARM,CUDDLING HIM WITH SUPPLE WARMTH. HE SMILES UNEASILY. SLOWLY, NOTEBY NOTE, ORIENTAL MUSIC IS PLAYED. HE GAZES IN THE TAWNY CRYSTAL OFHER EYES, RINGED WITH KOHOL. HIS SMILE SOFTENS.)ZOE: Youll know me the next time.BLOOM: (FORLORNLY) I never loved a dear gazelle but it was sure to ...(GAZELLES ARE LEAPING, FEEDING ON THE MOUNTAINS. NEAR ARE LAKES.ROUND THEIR SHORES FILE SHADOWS BLACK OF CEDARGROVES. AROMA RISES,A STRONG HAIRGROWTH OF RESIN. IT BURNS, THE ORIENT, A SKY OF SAPPHIRE,CLEFT BY THE BRONZE FLIGHT OF EAGLES. UNDER IT LIES THE WOMANCITYNUDE, WHITE, STILL, COOL, IN LUXURY. A FOUNTAIN MURMURS AMONGDAMASK ROSES. MAMMOTH ROSES MURMUR OF SCARLET WINEGRAPES. AWINE OF SHAME, LUST, BLOOD EXUDES, STRANGELY MURMURING.)ZOE: (MURMURING SINGSONG WITH THE MUSIC, HER ODALISK LIPS LUSCIOUSLYSMEARED WITH SALVE OF SWINEFAT AND ROSEWATER) SCHORACH ANI WENOWACH,BENOITH HIERUSHALOIM.BLOOM: (FASCINATED) I thought you were of good stock by your accent.ZOE: And you know what thought did?(SHE BITES HIS EAR GENTLY WITH LITTLE GOLDSTOPPED TEETH, SENDING ONHIM A CLOYING BREATH OF STALE GARLIC THE ROSES DRAW APART, DISCLOSE ASEPULCHRE OF THE GOLD OF KINGS AND THEIR MOULDERING BONES.)BLOOM: (DRAWS BACK, MECHANICALLY CARESSING HER RIGHT BUB WITH A FLATAWKWARD HAND) Are you a Dublin girl?ZOE: (CATCHES A STRAY HAIR DEFTLY AND TWISTS IT TO HER COIL)No bloody fear. Im English. Have you a swaggerroot?BLOOM:  (AS BEFORE) Rarely smoke, dear. Cigar now and then. Childishdevice. (LEWDLY) The mouth can be better engaged than with a cylinder ofrank weed.ZOE: Go on. Make a stump speech out of it.BLOOM: (IN WORKMANS CORDUROY OVERALLS, BLACK GANSY WITH RED FLOATING TIEAND APACHE CAP) Mankind is incorrigible. Sir Walter Ralegh brought from thenew world that potato and that weed, the one a killer of pestilence byabsorption, the other a poisoner of the ear, eye, heart, memory, willunderstanding, all. That is to say he brought the poison a hundred yearsbefore another person whose name I forget brought the food. Suicide. Lies.All our habits. Why, look at our public life!(MIDNIGHT CHIMES FROM DISTANT STEEPLES.)THE CHIMES: Turn again, Leopold! Lord mayor of Dublin!BLOOM: (IN ALDERMANS GOWN AND CHAIN) Electors of Arran Quay, Inns Quay,Rotunda, Mountjoy and North Dock, better run a tramline, I say, from thecattlemarket to the river. Thats the music of the future. Thats myprogramme. CUI BONO? But our bucaneering Vanderdeckens in theirphantom ship of finance ...AN ELECTOR: Three times three for our future chief magistrate!(THE AURORA BOREALIS OF THE TORCHLIGHT PROCESSION LEAPS.)THE TORCHBEARERS: Hooray!(SEVERAL WELLKNOWN BURGESSES, CITY MAGNATES AND FREEMEN OF THECITY SHAKE HANDS WITH BLOOM AND CONGRATULATE HIM. TIMOTHYHARRINGTON, LATE THRICE LORD MAYOR OF DUBLIN, IMPOSING IN MAYORALSCARLET, GOLD CHAIN AND WHITE SILK TIE, CONFERS WITH COUNCILLOR LORCANSHERLOCK, LOCUM TENENS. THEY NOD VIGOROUSLY IN AGREEMENT.)LATE LORD MAYOR HARRINGTON: (IN SCARLET ROBE WITH MACE, GOLD MAYORAL CHAINAND LARGE WHITE SILK SCARF) That alderman sir Leo Blooms speech beprinted at the expense of the ratepayers. That the house in which he wasborn be ornamented with a commemorative tablet and that the thoroughfarehitherto known as Cow Parlour off Cork street be henceforth designatedBoulevard Bloom.COUNCILLOR LORCAN SHERLOCK: Carried unanimously.BLOOM: (IMPASSIONEDLY) These flying Dutchmen or lying Dutchmen as theyrecline in their upholstered poop, casting dice, what reck they? Machinesis their cry, their chimera, their panacea. Laboursaving apparatuses,supplanters, bugbears, manufactured monsters for mutual murder, hideoushobgoblins produced by a horde of capitalistic lusts upon our prostitutedlabour. The poor man starves while they are grassing their royal mountainstags or shooting peasants and phartridges in their purblind pomp of pelfand power. But their reign is rover for rever and ever and ev ...(PROLONGED APPLAUSE. VENETIAN MASTS, MAYPOLES AND FESTAL ARCHESSPRING UP. A STREAMER BEARING THE LEGENDS Cead Mile Failte ANDMah Ttob Melek Israel SPANS THE STREET ALL THE WINDOWS ARETHRONGED WITH SIGHTSEERS, CHIEFLY LADIES. ALONG THE ROUTE THEREGIMENTS OF THE ROYAL DUBLIN FUSILIERS, THE KINGS OWN SCOTTISHBORDERERS, THE CAMERON HIGHLANDERS AND THE WELSH FUSILIERSSTANDING TO ATTENTION, KEEP BACK THE CROWD. BOYS FROM HIGH SCHOOLARE PERCHED ON THE LAMPPOSTS, TELEGRAPH POLES, WINDOWSILLS,CORNICES, GUTTERS, CHIMNEYPOTS, RAILINGS, RAINSPOUTS, WHISTLING ANDCHEERING THE PILLAR OF THE CLOUD APPEARS. A FIFE AND DRUM BAND ISHEARD IN THE DISTANCE PLAYING THE KOL NIDRE. THE BEATERS APPROACHWITH IMPERIAL EAGLES HOISTED, TRAILING BANNERS AND WAVING ORIENTALPALMS. THE CHRYSELEPHANTINE PAPAL STANDARD RISES HIGH, SURROUNDEDBY PENNONS OF THE CIVIC FLAG. THE VAN OF THE PROCESSION APPEARSHEADED BY JOHN HOWARD PARNELL, CITY MARSHAL, IN A CHESSBOARDTABARD, THE ATHLONE POURSUIVANT AND ULSTER KING OF ARMS. THEY AREFOLLOWED BY THE RIGHT HONOURABLE JOSEPH HUTCHINSON, LORD MAYOROF DUBLIN, HIS LORDSHIP THE LORD MAYOR OF CORK, THEIR WORSHIPS THEMAYORS OF LIMERICK, GALWAY, SLIGO AND WATERFORD, TWENTYEIGHTIRISH REPRESENTATIVE PEERS, SIRDARS, GRANDEES AND MAHARAJAHS BEARINGTHE CLOTH OF ESTATE, THE DUBLIN METROPOLITAN FIRE BRIGADE, THECHAPTER OF THE SAINTS OF FINANCE IN THEIR PLUTOCRATIC ORDER OFPRECEDENCE, THE BISHOP OF DOWN AND CONNOR, HIS EMINENCEMICHAEL CARDINAL LOGUE, ARCHBISHOP OF ARMAGH, PRIMATE OF ALLIRELAND, HIS GRACE, THE MOST REVEREND DR WILLIAM ALEXANDER,ARCHBISHOP OF ARMAGH, PRIMATE OF ALL IRELAND, THE CHIEF RABBI, THEPRESBYTERIAN MODERATOR, THE HEADS OF THE BAPTIST, ANABAPTIST,METHODIST AND MORAVIAN CHAPELS AND THE HONORARY SECRETARY OF THESOCIETY OF FRIENDS. AFTER THEM MARCH THE GUILDS AND TRADES ANDTRAINBANDS WITH FLYING COLOURS: COOPERS, BIRD FANCIERS, MILLWRIGHTS,NEWSPAPER CANVASSERS, LAW SCRIVENERS, MASSEURS, VINTNERS,TRUSSMAKERS, CHIMNEYSWEEPS, LARD REFINERS, TABINET AND POPLINWEAVERS, FARRIERS, ITALIAN WAREHOUSEMEN, CHURCH DECORATORS,BOOTJACK MANUFACTURERS, UNDERTAKERS, SILK MERCERS, LAPIDARIES,SALESMASTERS, CORKCUTTERS, ASSESSORS OF FIRE LOSSES, DYERS AND CLEANERS,EXPORT BOTTLERS, FELLMONGERS, TICKETWRITERS, HERALDIC SEAL ENGRAVERS,HORSE REPOSITORY HANDS, BULLION BROKERS, CRICKET AND ARCHERYOUTFITTERS, RIDDLEMAKERS, EGG AND POTATO FACTORS, HOSIERS AND GLOVERS,PLUMBING CONTRACTORS. AFTER THEM MARCH GENTLEMEN OF THEBEDCHAMBER, BLACK ROD, DEPUTY GARTER, GOLD STICK, THE MASTER OFHORSE, THE LORD GREAT CHAMBERLAIN, THE EARL MARSHAL, THE HIGHCONSTABLE CARRYING THE SWORD OF STATE, SAINT STEPHENS IRON CROWN,THE CHALICE AND BIBLE. FOUR BUGLERS ON FOOT BLOW A SENNET. BEEFEATERSREPLY, WINDING CLARIONS OF WELCOME. UNDER AN ARCH OF TRIUMPHBLOOM APPEARS, BAREHEADED, IN A CRIMSON VELVET MANTLE TRIMMEDWITH ERMINE, BEARING SAINT EDWARDS STAFF THE ORB AND SCEPTRE WITHTHE DOVE, THE CURTANA. HE IS SEATED ON A MILKWHITE HORSE WITH LONGFLOWING CRIMSON TAIL, RICHLY CAPARISONED, WITH GOLDEN HEADSTALL. WILDEXCITEMENT. THE LADIES FROM THEIR BALCONIES THROW DOWN ROSEPETALS.THE AIR IS PERFUMED WITH ESSENCES. THE MEN CHEER. BLOOMS BOYSRUN AMID THE BYSTANDERS WITH BRANCHES OF HAWTHORN AND WRENBUSHES.)BLOOMS BOYS:    The wren, the wren,    The king of all birds,    Saint Stephens his day    Was caught in the furze.A BLACKSMITH: (MURMURS) For the honour of God! And is that Bloom? Hescarcely looks thirtyone.A PAVIOR AND FLAGGER: Thats the famous Bloom now, the worlds greatestreformer. Hats off!(ALL UNCOVER THEIR HEADS. WOMEN WHISPER EAGERLY.)A MILLIONAIRESS: (RICHLY) Isnt he simply wonderful?A NOBLEWOMAN: (NOBLY) All that man has seen!A FEMINIST: (MASCULINELY) And done!A BELLHANGER: A classic face! He has the forehead of a thinker.(BLOOMS WEATHER. A SUNBURST APPEARS IN THE NORTHWEST.)THE BISHOP OF DOWN AND CONNOR: I here present your undoubtedemperor-president and king-chairman, the most serene and potent and verypuissant ruler of this realm. God save Leopold the First!ALL: God save Leopold the First!BLOOM: (IN DALMATIC AND PURPLE MANTLE, TO THE BISHOP OF DOWN AND CONNOR,WITH DIGNITY) Thanks, somewhat eminent sir.WILLIAM, ARCHBISHOP OF ARMAGH: (IN PURPLE STOCK AND SHOVEL HAT) Will youto your power cause law and mercy to be executed in all your judgments inIreland and territories thereunto belonging?BLOOM: (PLACING HIS RIGHT HAND ON HIS TESTICLES, SWEARS) So may theCreator deal with me. All this I promise to do.MICHAEL, ARCHBISHOP OF ARMAGH: (POURS A CRUSE OF HAIROIL OVER BLOOMSHEAD) GAUDIUM MAGNUM ANNUNTIO VOBIS. HABEMUS CARNEFICEM. Leopold, Patrick,Andrew, David, George, be thou anointed!(BLOOM ASSUMES A MANTLE OF CLOTH OF GOLD AND PUTS ON A RUBY RING.HE ASCENDS AND STANDS ON THE STONE OF DESTINY. THE REPRESENTATIVEPEERS PUT ON AT THE SAME TIME THEIR TWENTYEIGHT CROWNS. JOYBELLS RINGIN CHRIST CHURCH, SAINT PATRICKS, GEORGES AND GAY MALAHIDE. MIRUSBAZAAR FIREWORKS GO UP FROM ALL SIDES WITH SYMBOLICAL PHALLOPYROTECHNICDESIGNS. THE PEERS DO HOMAGE, ONE BY ONE, APPROACHING AND GENUFLECTING.)THE PEERS: I do become your liege man of life and limb to earthly worship.(BLOOM HOLDS UP HIS RIGHT HAND ON WHICH SPARKLES THE KOH-I-NOORDIAMOND. HIS PALFREY NEIGHS. IMMEDIATE SILENCE. WIRELESSINTERCONTINENTAL AND INTERPLANETARY TRANSMITTERS ARE SET FOR RECEPTIONOF MESSAGE.)BLOOM: My subjects! We hereby nominate our faithful charger Copula Felixhereditary Grand Vizier and announce that we have this day repudiatedour former spouse and have bestowed our royal hand upon the princessSelene, the splendour of night.(THE FORMER MORGANATIC SPOUSE OF BLOOM IS HASTILY REMOVED IN THEBLACK MARIA. THE PRINCESS SELENE, IN MOONBLUE ROBES, A SILVERCRESCENT ON HER HEAD, DESCENDS FROM A SEDAN CHAIR, BORNE BY TWOGIANTS. AN OUTBURST OF CHEERING.)JOHN HOWARD PARNELL: (RAISES THE ROYAL STANDARD) Illustrious Bloom!Successor to my famous brother!BLOOM: (EMBRACES JOHN HOWARD PARNELL) We thank you from our heart, John,for this right royal welcome to green Erin, the promised land of our commonancestors.(THE FREEDOM OF THE CITY IS PRESENTED TO HIM EMBODIED IN A CHARTER.THE KEYS OF DUBLIN, CROSSED ON A CRIMSON CUSHION, ARE GIVEN TO HIM.HE SHOWS ALL THAT HE IS WEARING GREEN SOCKS.)TOM KERNAN: You deserve it, your honour.BLOOM: On this day twenty years ago we overcame the hereditary enemy atLadysmith. Our howitzers and camel swivel guns played on his lines withtelling effect. Half a league onward! They charge! All is lost now! Do weyield? No! We drive them headlong! Lo! We charge! Deploying to the leftour light horse swept across the heights of Plevna and, uttering theirwarcry BONAFIDE SABAOTH, sabred the Saracen gunners to a man.THE CHAPEL OF FREEMAN TYPESETTERS: Hear! Hear!JOHN WYSE NOLAN: Theres the man that got away James Stephens.A BLUECOAT SCHOOLBOY: Bravo!AN OLD RESIDENT: Youre a credit to your country, sir, thats what you are.AN APPLEWOMAN: Hes a man like Ireland wants.BLOOM: My beloved subjects, a new era is about to dawn. I, Bloom, tell youverily it is even now at hand. Yea, on the word of a Bloom, ye shall ere longenter into the golden city which is to be, the new Bloomusalem in the NovaHibernia of the future.(THIRTYTWO WORKMEN, WEARING ROSETTES, FROM ALL THE COUNTIES OFIRELAND, UNDER THE GUIDANCE OF DERWAN THE BUILDER, CONSTRUCT THENEW BLOOMUSALEM. IT IS A COLOSSAL EDIFICE WITH CRYSTAL ROOF, BUILT INTHE SHAPE OF A HUGE PORK KIDNEY, CONTAINING FORTY THOUSAND ROOMS.IN THE COURSE OF ITS EXTENSION SEVERAL BUILDINGS AND MONUMENTS AREDEMOLISHED. GOVERNMENT OFFICES ARE TEMPORARILY TRANSFERRED TORAILWAY SHEDS. NUMEROUS HOUSES ARE RAZED TO THE GROUND. THEINHABITANTS ARE LODGED IN BARRELS AND BOXES, ALL MARKED IN RED WITHTHE LETTERS: L. B. SEVERAL PAUPERS FILL FROM A LADDER. A PART OF THEWALLS OF DUBLIN, CROWDED WITH LOYAL SIGHTSEERS, COLLAPSES.)THE SIGHTSEERS: (DYING) MORITURI TE SALUTANT. (THEY DIE)(A MAN IN A BROWN MACINTOSH SPRINGS UP THROUGH A TRAPDOOR. HEPOINTS AN ELONGATED FINGER AT BLOOM.)THE MAN IN THE MACINTOSH: Dont you believe a word he says. That man isLeopold MIntosh, the notorious fireraiser. His real name is Higgins.BLOOM: Shoot him! Dog of a christian! So much for MIntosh!(A CANNONSHOT. THE MAN IN THE MACINTOSH DISAPPEARS. BLOOM WITHHIS SCEPTRE STRIKES DOWN POPPIES. THE INSTANTANEOUS DEATHS OF MANYPOWERFUL ENEMIES, GRAZIERS, MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT, MEMBERS OFSTANDING COMMITTEES, ARE REPORTED. BLOOMS BODYGUARD DISTRIBUTEMAUNDY MONEY, COMMEMORATION MEDALS, LOAVES AND FISHES,TEMPERANCE BADGES, EXPENSIVE HENRY CLAY CIGARS, FREE COWBONES FORSOUP, RUBBER PRESERVATIVES IN SEALED ENVELOPES TIED WITH GOLD THREAD,BUTTER SCOTCH, PINEAPPLE ROCK, BILLETS DOUX IN THE FORM OF COCKEDHATS, READYMADE SUITS, PORRINGERS OF TOAD IN THE HOLE, BOTTLES OFJEYES FLUID, PURCHASE STAMPS,  DAYS INDULGENCES, SPURIOUS COINS,DAIRYFED PORK SAUSAGES, THEATRE PASSES, SEASON TICKETS AVAILABLE FORALL TRAMLINES, COUPONS OF THE ROYAL AND PRIVILEGED HUNGARIANLOTTERY, PENNY DINNER COUNTERS, CHEAP REPRINTS OF THE WORLDS TWELVEWORST BOOKS: FROGGY AND FRITZ (POLITIC), CARE OF THE BABY(INFANTILIC), SO MEALS FOR / (CULINIC), WAS JESUS A SUN MYTH?(HISTORIC), EXPEL THAT PAIN (MEDIC), INFANTS COMPENDIUM OF THEUNIVERSE (COSMIC), LETS ALL CHORTLE (HILARIC), CANVASSERS VADEMECUM (JOURNALIC), LOVELETTERS OF MOTHER ASSISTANT (EROTIC), WHOSWHO IN SPACE (ASTRIC), SONGS THAT REACHED OUR HEART (MELODIC),PENNYWISES WAY TO WEALTH (PARSIMONIC). A GENERAL RUSH ANDSCRAMBLE. WOMEN PRESS FORWARD TO TOUCH THE HEM OF BLOOMS ROBE.THE LADY GWENDOLEN DUBEDAT BURSTS THROUGH THE THRONG, LEAPS ONHIS HORSE AND KISSES HIM ON BOTH CHEEKS AMID GREAT ACCLAMATION. AMAGNESIUM FLASHLIGHT PHOTOGRAPH IS TAKEN. BABES AND SUCKLINGS AREHELD UP.)THE WOMEN: Little father! Little father!THE BABES AND SUCKLINGS:    Clap clap hands till Poldy comes home,    Cakes in his pocket for Leo alone.(BLOOM, BENDING DOWN, POKES BABY BOARDMAN GENTLY IN THE STOMACH.)BABY BOARDMAN: (HICCUPS, CURDLED MILK FLOWING FROM HIS MOUTH) Hajajaja.BLOOM: (SHAKING HANDS WITH A BLIND STRIPLING) My more than Brother!(PLACING HIS ARMS ROUND THE SHOULDERS OF AN OLD COUPLE) Dear old friends!(HE PLAYS PUSSY FOURCORNERS WITH RAGGED BOYS AND GIRLS) Peep! Bopeep! (HEWHEELS TWINS IN A PERAMBULATOR) Ticktacktwo wouldyousetashoe? (HE PERFORMSJUGGLERS TRICKS, DRAWS RED, ORANGE, YELLOW, GREEN, BLUE, INDIGO ANDVIOLET SILK HANDKERCHIEFS FROM HIS MOUTH) Roygbiv.  feet per second. (HECONSOLES A WIDOW) Absence makes the heart grow younger. (HE DANCES THEHIGHLAND FLING WITH GROTESQUE ANTICS) Leg it, ye devils! (HE KISSES THEBEDSORES OF A PALSIED VETERAN) Honourable wounds! (HE TRIPS UP A FITPOLICEMAN) U. p: up. U. p: up. (HE WHISPERS IN THE EAR OF A BLUSHINGWAITRESS AND LAUGHS KINDLY) Ah, naughty, naughty! (HE EATS A RAW TURNIPOFFERED HIM BY MAURICE BUTTERLY, FARMER) Fine! Splendid! (HE REFUSES TOACCEPT THREE SHILLINGS OFFERED HIM BY JOSEPH HYNES, JOURNALIST) My dearfellow, not at all! (HE GIVES HIS COAT TO A BEGGAR) Please accept.(HE TAKES PART IN A STOMACH RACE WITH ELDERLY MALE AND FEMALE CRIPPLES)Come on, boys! Wriggle it, girls!THE CITIZEN: (CHOKED WITH EMOTION, BRUSHES ASIDE A TEAR IN HIS EMERALDMUFFLER) May the good God bless him!(THE RAMS HORNS SOUND FOR SILENCE. THE STANDARD OF ZION IS HOISTED.)BLOOM: (UNCLOAKS IMPRESSIVELY, REVEALING OBESITY, UNROLLS A PAPER ANDREADS SOLEMNLY) Aleph Beth Ghimel Daleth Hagadah Tephilim Kosher YomKippur Hanukah Roschaschana Beni Brith Bar Mitzvah MazzothAskenazim Meshuggah Talith.(AN OFFICIAL TRANSLATION IS READ BY JIMMY HENRY, ASSISTANT TOWN CLERK.)JIMMY HENRY: The Court of Conscience is now open. His Most CatholicMajesty will now administer open air justice. Free medical and legaladvice, solution of doubles and other problems. All cordially invited.Given at this our loyal city of Dublin in the year I of the ParadisiacalEra.PADDY LEONARD: What am I to do about my rates and taxes?BLOOM: Pay them, my friend.PADDY LEONARD: Thank you.NOSEY FLYNN: Can I raise a mortgage on my fire insurance?BLOOM: (OBDURATELY) Sirs, take notice that by the law of torts you arebound over in your own recognisances for six months in the sum of fivepounds.J. J. OMOLLOY: A Daniel did I say? Nay! A Peter OBrien!NOSEY FLYNN: Where do I draw the five pounds?PISSER BURKE: For bladder trouble?BLOOM:    ACID. NIT. HYDROCHLOR. DIL.,  MINIMS    TINCT. NUX VOM.,  MINIMS    EXTR. TARAXEL. IIQ.,  MINIMS.    AQ. DIS. TER IN DIE.CHRIS CALLINAN: What is the parallax of the subsolar ecliptic of Aldebaran?BLOOM: Pleased to hear from you, Chris. K. II.JOE HYNES: Why arent you in uniform?BLOOM: When my progenitor of sainted memory wore the uniform of theAustrian despot in a dank prison where was yours?BEN DOLLARD: Pansies?BLOOM: Embellish (beautify) suburban gardens.BEN DOLLARD: When twins arrive?BLOOM: Father (pater, dad) starts thinking.LARRY OROURKE: An eightday licence for my new premises. You remember me,sir Leo, when you were in number seven. Im sending around a dozen ofstout for the missus.BLOOM: (COLDLY) You have the advantage of me. Lady Bloom accepts nopresents.CROFTON: This is indeed a festivity.BLOOM: (SOLEMNLY) You call it a festivity. I call it a sacrament.ALEXANDER KEYES: When will we have our own house of keys?BLOOM: I stand for the reform of municipal morals and the plain tencommandments. New worlds for old. Union of all, jew, moslem and gentile.Three acres and a cow for all children of nature. Saloon motor hearses.Compulsory manual labour for all. All parks open to the public day andnight. Electric dishscrubbers. Tuberculosis, lunacy, war and mendicancymust now cease. General amnesty, weekly carnival with masked licence,bonuses for all, esperanto the universal language with universalbrotherhood. No more patriotism of barspongers and dropsical impostors.Free money, free rent, free love and a free lay church in a freelay state.OMADDEN BURKE: Free fox in a free henroost.DAVY BYRNE: (YAWNING) Iiiiiiiiiaaaaaaach!BLOOM: Mixed races and mixed marriage.LENEHAN: What about mixed bathing?(BLOOM EXPLAINS TO THOSE NEAR HIM HIS SCHEMES FOR SOCIALREGENERATION. ALL AGREE WITH HIM. THE KEEPER OF THE KILDARE STREETMUSEUM APPEARS, DRAGGING A LORRY ON WHICH ARE THE SHAKING STATUESOF SEVERAL NAKED GODDESSES, VENUS CALLIPYGE, VENUS PANDEMOS,VENUS METEMPSYCHOSIS, AND PLASTER FIGURES, ALSO NAKED, REPRESENTINGTHE NEW NINE MUSES, COMMERCE, OPERATIC MUSIC, AMOR, PUBLICITY,MANUFACTURE, LIBERTY OF SPEECH, PLURAL VOTING, GASTRONOMY,PRIVATE HYGIENE, SEASIDE CONCERT ENTERTAINMENTS, PAINLESSOBSTETRICS AND ASTRONOMY FOR THE PEOPLE.)FATHER FARLEY: He is an episcopalian, an agnostic, an anythingarianseeking to overthrow our holy faith.MRS RIORDAN: (TEARS UP HER WILL) Im disappointed in you! You bad man!MOTHER GROGAN: (REMOVES HER BOOT TO THROW IT AT BLOOM) You beast!You abominable person!NOSEY FLYNN: Give us a tune, Bloom. One of the old sweet songs.BLOOM: (WITH ROLLICKING HUMOUR)    I vowed that I never would leave her,    She turned out a cruel deceiver.    With my tooraloom tooraloom tooraloom tooraloom.HOPPY HOLOHAN: Good old Bloom! Theres nobody like him after all.PADDY LEONARD: Stage Irishman!BLOOM: What railway opera is like a tramline in Gibraltar? The Rows ofCasteele.(LAUGHTER.)LENEHAN: Plagiarist! Down with Bloom!THE VEILED SIBYL: (ENTHUSIASTICALLY) Im a Bloomite and I glory in it.I believe in him in spite of all. Id give my life for him, the funniestman on earth.BLOOM: (WINKS AT THE BYSTANDERS) I bet shes a bonny lassie.THEODORE PUREFOY: (IN FISHINGCAP AND OILSKIN JACKET) He employs amechanical device to frustrate the sacred ends of nature.THE VEILED SIBYL: (STABS HERSELF) My hero god! (SHE DIES)(MANY MOST ATTRACTIVE AND ENTHUSIASTIC WOMEN ALSO COMMIT SUICIDEBY STABBING, DROWNING, DRINKING PRUSSIC ACID, ACONITE, ARSENIC,OPENING THEIR VEINS, REFUSING FOOD, CASTING THEMSELVES UNDERSTEAMROLLERS, FROM THE TOP OF NELSONS PILLAR, INTO THE GREAT VAT OFGUINNESSS BREWERY, ASPHYXIATING THEMSELVES BY PLACING THEIR HEADSIN GASOVENS, HANGING THEMSELVES IN STYLISH GARTERS, LEAPING FROMWINDOWS OF DIFFERENT STOREYS.)ALEXANDER J DOWIE: (VIOLENTLY) Fellowchristians and antiBloomites, the mancalled Bloom is from the roots of hell, a disgrace to christian men.A fiendish libertine from his earliest years this stinking goat of Mendesgave precocious signs of infantile debauchery, recalling the cities of theplain, with a dissolute granddam. This vile hypocrite, bronzed with infamy,is the white bull mentioned in the Apocalypse. A worshipper of the ScarletWoman, intrigue is the very breath of his nostrils. The stake faggots andthe caldron of boiling oil are for him. Caliban!THE MOB: Lynch him! Roast him! Hes as bad as Parnell was. Mr Fox!(MOTHER GROGAN THROWS HER BOOT AT BLOOM. SEVERAL SHOPKEEPERSFROM UPPER AND LOWER DORSET STREET THROW OBJECTS OF LITTLE OR NOCOMMERCIAL VALUE, HAMBONES, CONDENSED MILK TINS, UNSALEABLECABBAGE, STALE BREAD, SHEEPS TAILS, ODD PIECES OF FAT.)BLOOM: (EXCITEDLY) This is midsummer madness, some ghastly joke again. Byheaven, I am guiltless as the unsunned snow! It was my brother Henry. Heis my double. He lives in number  Dolphins Barn. Slander, the viper, haswrongfully accused me. Fellowcountrymen, SGENL INN BAN BATA COISDE GANCAPALL. I call on my old friend, Dr Malachi Mulligan, sex specialist, togive medical testimony on my behalf.DR MULLIGAN: (IN MOTOR JERKIN, GREEN MOTORGOGGLES ON HIS BROW) Dr Bloom isbisexually abnormal. He has recently escaped from Dr Eustaces privateasylum for demented gentlemen. Born out of bedlock hereditary epilepsy ispresent, the consequence of unbridled lust. Traces of elephantiasis have beendiscovered among his ascendants. There are marked symptoms of chronicexhibitionism. Ambidexterity is also latent. He is prematurely bald fromselfabuse, perversely idealistic in consequence, a reformed rake, and hasmetal teeth. In consequence of a family complex he has temporarily losthis memory and I believe him to be more sinned against than sinning. Ihave made a pervaginal examination and, after application of the acid testto  anal, axillary, pectoral and pubic hairs, I declare him to beVIRGO INTACTA.(BLOOM HOLDS HIS HIGH GRADE HAT OVER HIS GENITAL ORGANS.)DR MADDEN: Hypsospadia is also marked. In the interest of cominggenerations I suggest that the parts affected should be preserved inspirits of wine in the national teratological museum.DR CROTTHERS: I have examined the patients urine. It is albuminoid.Salivation is insufficient, the patellar reflex intermittent.DR PUNCH COSTELLO: The FETOR JUDAICUS is most perceptible.DR DIXON: (READS A BILL OF HEALTH) Professor Bloom is a finished example ofthe new womanly man. His moral nature is simple and lovable. Many have foundhim a dear man, a dear person. He is a rather quaint fellow on the whole,coy though not feebleminded in the medical sense. He has written a reallybeautiful letter, a poem in itself, to the court missionary of theReformed Priests Protection Society which clears up everything. He ispractically a total abstainer and I can affirm that he sleeps on a strawlitter and eats the most Spartan food, cold dried grocers peas. He wearsa hairshirt of pure Irish manufacture winter and summer and scourgeshimself every Saturday. He was, I understand, at one time a firstclassmisdemeanant in Glencree reformatory. Another report states that he was avery posthumous child. I appeal for clemency in the name of the mostsacred word our vocal organs have ever been called upon to speak. He isabout to have a baby.(GENERAL COMMOTION AND COMPASSION. WOMEN FAINT. A WEALTHYAMERICAN MAKES A STREET COLLECTION FOR BLOOM. GOLD AND SILVERCOINS, BLANK CHEQUES, BANKNOTES, JEWELS, TREASURY BONDS, MATURINGBILLS OF EXCHANGE, I. O. US, WEDDING RINGS, WATCHCHAINS, LOCKETS,NECKLACES AND BRACELETS ARE RAPIDLY COLLECTED.)BLOOM: O, I so want to be a mother.MRS THORNTON: (IN NURSETENDERS GOWN) Embrace me tight, dear.Youll be soon over it. Tight, dear.(BLOOM EMBRACES HER TIGHTLY AND BEARS EIGHT MALE YELLOW AND WHITECHILDREN. THEY APPEAR ON A REDCARPETED STAIRCASE ADORNED WITHEXPENSIVE PLANTS. ALL THE OCTUPLETS ARE HANDSOME, WITH VALUABLEMETALLIC FACES, WELLMADE, RESPECTABLY DRESSED AND WELLCONDUCTED,SPEAKING FIVE MODERN LANGUAGES FLUENTLY AND INTERESTED IN VARIOUSARTS AND SCIENCES. EACH HAS HIS NAME PRINTED IN LEGIBLE LETTERS ON HISSHIRTFRONT: NASODORO, GOLDFINGER, CHRYSOSTOMOS, MAINDOREE,SILVERSMILE, SILBERSELBER, VIFARGENT, PANARGYROS. THEY AREIMMEDIATELY APPOINTED TO POSITIONS OF HIGH PUBLIC TRUST IN SEVERALDIFFERENT COUNTRIES AS MANAGING DIRECTORS OF BANKS, TRAFFIC MANAGERSOF RAILWAYS, CHAIRMEN OF LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES, VICECHAIRMENOF HOTEL SYNDICATES.)A VOICE: Bloom, are you the Messiah ben Joseph or ben David?BLOOM: (DARKLY) You have said it.BROTHER BUZZ: Then perform a miracle like Father Charles.BANTAM LYONS: Prophesy who will win the Saint Leger.(BLOOM WALKS ON A NET, COVERS HIS LEFT EYE WITH HIS LEFT EAR, PASSESTHROUGH SEVERAL WALLS, CLIMBS NELSONS PILLAR, HANGS FROM THE TOPLEDGE BY HIS EYELIDS, EATS TWELVE DOZEN OYSTERS (SHELLS INCLUDED),HEALS SEVERAL SUFFERERS FROM KINGS EVIL, CONTRACTS HIS FACE SO AS TORESEMBLE MANY HISTORICAL PERSONAGES, LORD BEACONSFIELD, LORDBYRON, WAT TYLER, MOSES OF EGYPT, MOSES MAIMONIDES, MOSESMENDELSSOHN, HENRY IRVING, RIP VAN WINKLE, KOSSUTH, JEAN JACQUESROUSSEAU, BARON LEOPOLD ROTHSCHILD, ROBINSON CRUSOE, SHERLOCKHOLMES, PASTEUR, TURNS EACH FOOT SIMULTANEOUSLY IN DIFFERENTDIRECTIONS, BIDS THE TIDE TURN BACK, ECLIPSES THE SUN BY EXTENDING HISLITTLE FINGER.)BRINI, PAPAL NUNCIO: (IN PAPAL ZOUAVES UNIFORM, STEEL CUIRASSES ASBREASTPLATE, ARMPLATES, THIGHPLATES, LEGPLATES, LARGE PROFANE MOUSTACHESAND BROWN PAPER MITRE) LEOPOLDI AUTEM GENERATIO. Moses begat Noah and Noahbegat Eunuch and Eunuch begat OHalloran and OHalloran begat Guggenheimand Guggenheim begat Agendath and Agendath begat Netaim and Netaimbegat Le Hirsch and Le Hirsch begat Jesurum and Jesurum begat MacKayand MacKay begat Ostrolopsky and Ostrolopsky begat Smerdoz andSmerdoz begat Weiss and Weiss begat Schwarz and Schwarz begatAdrianopoli and Adrianopoli begat Aranjuez and Aranjuez begat LewyLawson and Lewy Lawson begat Ichabudonosor and Ichabudonosor begatODonnell Magnus and ODonnell Magnus begat Christbaum andChristbaum begat ben Maimun and ben Maimun begat Dusty Rhodes andDusty Rhodes begat Benamor and Benamor begat Jones-Smith andJones-Smith begat Savorgnanovich and Savorgnanovich begat Jasperstoneand Jasperstone begat Vingtetunieme and Vingtetunieme begatSzombathely and Szombathely begat Virag and Virag begat Bloom ETVOCABITUR NOMEN EIUS EMMANUEL.A DEADHAND: (WRITES ON THE WALL) Bloom is a cod.CRAB: (IN BUSHRANGERS KIT) What did you do in the cattlecreep behindKilbarrack?A FEMALE INFANT: (SHAKES A RATTLE) And under Ballybough bridge?A HOLLYBUSH: And in the devils glen?BLOOM: (BLUSHES FURIOUSLY ALL OVER FROM FRONS TO NATES, THREE TEARSFILLING FROM HIS LEFT EYE) Spare my past.THE IRISH EVICTED TENANTS: (IN BODYCOATS, KNEEBREECHES, WITH DONNYBROOKFAIR SHILLELAGHS) Sjambok him!(BLOOM WITH ASSES EARS SEATS HIMSELF IN THE PILLORY WITH CROSSEDARMS, HIS FEET PROTRUDING. HE WHISTLES Don Giovanni, a cenar teco.ARTANE ORPHANS, JOINING HANDS, CAPER ROUND HIM. GIRLS OF THE PRISONGATE MISSION, JOINING HANDS, CAPER ROUND IN THE OPPOSITE DIRECTION.)THE ARTANE ORPHANS:    You hig, you hog, you dirty dog!    You think the ladies love you!THE PRISON GATE GIRLS:    If you see Kay    Tell him he may    See you in tea    Tell him from me.HORNBLOWER: (IN EPHOD AND HUNTINGCAP, ANNOUNCES) And he shall carry thesins of the people to Azazel, the spirit which is in the wilderness, andto Lilith, the nighthag. And they shall stone him and defile him, yea, allfrom Agendath Netaim and from Mizraim, the land of Ham.(ALL THE PEOPLE CAST SOFT PANTOMIME STONES AT BLOOM. MANY BONAFIDETRAVELLERS AND OWNERLESS DOGS COME NEAR HIM AND DEFILE HIM.MASTIANSKY AND CITRON APPROACH IN GABERDINES, WEARING LONGEARLOCKS. THEY WAG THEIR BEARDS AT BLOOM.)MASTIANSKY AND CITRON: Belial! Laemlein of Istria, the false Messiah!Abulafia! Recant!(GEORGE R MESIAS, BLOOMS TAILOR, APPEARS, A TAILORS GOOSE UNDERHIS ARM, PRESENTING A BILL)MESIAS: To alteration one pair trousers eleven shillings.BLOOM: (RUBS HIS HANDS CHEERFULLY) Just like old times. Poor Bloom!(REUBEN J DODD, BLACKBEARDED ISCARIOT, BAD SHEPHERD, BEARING ONHIS SHOULDERS THE DROWNED CORPSE OF HIS SON, APPROACHES THEPILLORY.)REUBEN J: (WHISPERS HOARSELY) The squeak is out. A split is gone for theflatties. Nip the first rattler.THE FIRE BRIGADE: Pflaap!BROTHER BUZZ: (INVESTS BLOOM IN A YELLOW HABIT WITH EMBROIDERY OF PAINTEDFLAMES AND HIGH POINTED HAT HE PLACES A BAG OF GUNPOWDER ROUND HIS NECKAND HANDS HIM OVER TO THE CIVIL POWER, SAYING) Forgive him his trespasses.(LIEUTENANT MYERS OF THE DUBLIN FIRE BRIGADE BY GENERAL REQUESTSETS FIRE TO BLOOM. LAMENTATIONS.)THE CITIZEN: Thank heaven!BLOOM: (IN A SEAMLESS GARMENT MARKED I. H. S. STANDS UPRIGHT AMID PHOENIXFLAMES) Weep not for me, O daughters of Erin.(HE EXHIBITS TO DUBLIN REPORTERS TRACES OF BURNING. THE DAUGHTERS OF ERIN,IN BLACK GARMENTS, WITH LARGE PRAYERBOOKS AND LONG LIGHTED CANDLES INTHEIR HANDS, KNEEL DOWN AND PRAY.)THE DAUGHTERS OF ERIN:    Kidney of Bloom, pray for us    Flower of the Bath, pray for us    Mentor of Menton, pray for us    Canvasser for the Freeman, pray for us    Charitable Mason, pray for us    Wandering Soap, pray for us    Sweets of Sin, pray for us    Music without Words, pray for us    Reprover of the Citizen, pray for us    Friend of all Frillies, pray for us    Midwife Most Merciful, pray for us    Potato Preservative against Plague and Pestilence, pray for us.(A CHOIR OF SIX HUNDRED VOICES, CONDUCTED BY VINCENT OBRIEN,SINGS THE CHORUS FROM HANDELS MESSIAH ALLELUIA FOR THE LORD GODOMNIPOTENT REIGNETH, ACCOMPANIED ON THE ORGAN BY JOSEPH GLYNN.BLOOM BECOMES MUTE, SHRUNKEN, CARBONISED.)ZOE: Talk away till youre black in the face.BLOOM: (IN CAUBEEN WITH CLAY PIPE STUCK IN THE BAND, DUSTY BROGUES, ANEMIGRANTS RED HANDKERCHIEF BUNDLE IN HIS HAND, LEADING A BLACK BOGOAK PIGBY A SUGAUN, WITH A SMILE IN HIS EYE) Let me be going now, woman of thehouse, for by all the goats in Connemara Im after having the father andmother of a bating. (WITH A TEAR IN HIS EYE) All insanity. Patriotism,sorrow for the dead, music, future of the race. To be or not to be. Lifesdream is oer. End it peacefully. They can live on. (HE GAZES FAR AWAYMOURNFULLY) I am ruined. A few pastilles of aconite. The blinds drawn.A letter. Then lie back to rest. (HE BREATHES SOFTLY) No more. I havelived. Fare. Farewell.ZOE: (STIFFLY, HER FINGER IN HER NECKFILLET) Honest? Till the next time.(SHE SNEERS) Suppose you got up the wrong side of the bed or came tooquick with your best girl. O, I can read your thoughts!BLOOM: (BITTERLY) Man and woman, love, what is it? A cork and bottle.Im sick of it. Let everything rip.ZOE: (IN SUDDEN SULKS) I hate a rotter thats insincere. Give a bleedingwhore a chance.BLOOM: (REPENTANTLY) I am very disagreeable. You are a necessary evil.Where are you from? London?ZOE: (GLIBLY) Hogs Norton where the pigs plays the organs. Im Yorkshireborn. (SHE HOLDS HIS HAND WHICH IS FEELING FOR HER NIPPLE) I say, TommyTittlemouse. Stop that and begin worse. Have you cash for a short time?Ten shillings?BLOOM: (SMILES, NODS SLOWLY) More, houri, more.ZOE: And mores mother? (SHE PATS HIM OFFHANDEDLY WITH VELVET PAWS) Are youcoming into the musicroom to see our new pianola? Come and Ill peel off.BLOOM: (FEELING HIS OCCIPUT DUBIOUSLY WITH THE UNPARALLELED EMBARRASSMENTOF A HARASSED PEDLAR GAUGING THE SYMMETRY OF HER PEELED PEARS) Somebodywould be dreadfully jealous if she knew. The greeneyed monster.(EARNESTLY) You know how difficult it is. I neednt tell you.ZOE: (FLATTERED) What the eye cant see the heart cant grieve for.(SHE PATS HIM) Come.BLOOM: Laughing witch! The hand that rocks the cradle.ZOE: Babby!BLOOM: (IN BABYLINEN AND PELISSE, BIGHEADED, WITH A CAUL OF DARK HAIR,FIXES BIG EYES ON HER FLUID SLIP AND COUNTS ITS BRONZE BUCKLES WITH ACHUBBY FINGER, HIS MOIST TONGUE LOLLING AND LISPING) One two tlee: tleetlwo tlone.THE BUCKLES: Love me. Love me not. Love me.ZOE: Silent means consent. (WITH LITTLE PARTED TALONS SHE CAPTURES HISHAND, HER FOREFINGER GIVING TO HIS PALM THE PASSTOUCH OF SECRET MONITOR,LURING HIM TO DOOM.) Hot hands cold gizzard.(HE HESITATES AMID SCENTS, MUSIC, TEMPTATIONS. SHE LEADS HIMTOWARDS THE STEPS, DRAWING HIM BY THE ODOUR OF HER ARMPITS, THE VICEOF HER PAINTED EYES, THE RUSTLE OF HER SLIP IN WHOSE SINUOUS FOLDSLURKS THE LION REEK OF ALL THE MALE BRUTES THAT HAVE POSSESSED HER.)THE MALE BRUTES: (EXHALING SULPHUR OF RUT AND DUNG AND RAMPING IN THEIRLOOSEBOX, FAINTLY ROARING, THEIR DRUGGED HEADS SWAYING TO AND FRO) Good!(ZOE AND BLOOM REACH THE DOORWAY WHERE TWO SISTER WHORES ARESEATED. THEY EXAMINE HIM CURIOUSLY FROM UNDER THEIR PENCILLEDBROWS AND SMILE TO HIS HASTY BOW. HE TRIPS AWKWARDLY.)ZOE: (HER LUCKY HAND INSTANTLY SAVING HIM) Hoopsa! Dont fall upstairs.BLOOM: The just man falls seven times. (HE STANDS ASIDE AT THE THRESHOLD)After you is good manners.ZOE: Ladies first, gentlemen after.(SHE CROSSES THE THRESHOLD. HE HESITATES. SHE TURNS AND, HOLDING OUTHER HANDS, DRAWS HIM OVER. HE HOPS. ON THE ANTLERED RACK OF THEHALL HANG A MAN S HAT AND WATERPROOF. BLOOM UNCOVERS HIMSELF BUT,SEEING THEM, FROWNS, THEN SMILES, PREOCCUPIED. A DOOR ON THE RETURNLANDING IS FLUNG OPEN. A MAN IN PURPLE SHIRT AND GREY TROUSERS,BROWNSOCKED, PASSES WITH AN APES GAIT, HIS BALD HEAD AND GOATEEBEARD UPHELD, HUGGING A FULL WATERJUGJAR, HIS TWOTAILED BLACK BRACESDANGLING AT HEELS. AVERTING HIS FACE QUICKLY BLOOM BENDS TO EXAMINEON THE HALLTABLE THE SPANIEL EYES OF A RUNNING FOX: THEN, HIS LIFTEDHEAD SNIFFING, FOLLOWS ZOE INTO THE MUSICROOM. A SHADE OF MAUVETISSUEPAPER DIMS THE LIGHT OF THE CHANDELIER. ROUND AND ROUND AMOTH FLIES, COLLIDING, ESCAPING. THE FLOOR IS COVERED WITH AN OILCLOTHMOSAIC OF JADE AND AZURE AND CINNABAR RHOMBOIDS. FOOTMARKS ARESTAMPED OVER IT IN ALL SENSES, HEEL TO HEEL, HEEL TO HOLLOW, TOE TO TOE,FEET LOCKED, A MORRIS OF SHUFFLING FEET WITHOUT BODY PHANTOMS, ALL INA SCRIMMAGE HIGGLEDYPIGGLEDY. THE WALLS ARE TAPESTRIED WITH A PAPEROF YEWFRONDS AND CLEAR GLADES. IN THE GRATE IS SPREAD A SCREEN OFPEACOCK FEATHERS. LYNCH SQUATS CROSSLEGGED ON THE HEARTHRUG OFMATTED HAIR, HIS CAP BACK TO THE FRONT. WITH A WAND HE BEATS TIMESLOWLY. KITTY RICKETTS, A BONY PALLID WHORE IN NAVY COSTUME,DOESKIN GLOVES ROLLED BACK FROM A CORAL WRISTLET, A CHAIN PURSE IN HERHAND, SITS PERCHED ON THE EDGE OF THE TABLE SWINGING HER LEG ANDGLANCING AT HERSELF IN THE GILT MIRROR OVER THE MANTELPIECE. A TAG OFHER CORSETLACE HANGS SLIGHTLY BELOW HER JACKET LYNCH INDICATESMOCKINGLY THE COUPLE AT THE PIANO.)KITTY: (COUGHS BEHIND HER HAND) Shes a bit imbecillic. (SHE SIGNS WITH AWAGGLING FOREFINGER) Blemblem. (LYNCH LIFTS UP HER SKIRT AND WHITE PETTICOATWITH HIS WAND SHE SETTLES THEM DOWN QUICKLY.) Respect yourself. (SHE HICCUPS,THEN BENDS QUICKLY HER SAILOR HAT UNDER WHICH HER HAIR GLOWS, RED WITH HENNA)O, excuse!ZOE: More limelight, Charley. (SHE GOES TO THE CHANDELIER AND TURNS THEGAS FULL COCK)KITTY: (PEERS AT THE GASJET) What ails it tonight?LYNCH: (DEEPLY) Enter a ghost and hobgoblins.ZOE: Clap on the back for Zoe.(THE WAND IN LYNCHS HAND FLASHES: A BRASS POKER. STEPHEN STANDSAT THE PIANOLA ON WHICH SPRAWL HIS HAT AND ASHPLANT. WITH TWOFINGERS HE REPEATS ONCE MORE THE SERIES OF EMPTY FIFTHS. FLORRYTALBOT, A BLOND FEEBLE GOOSEFAT WHORE IN A TATTERDEMALION GOWN OFMILDEWED STRAWBERRY, LOLLS SPREADEAGLE IN THE SOFACORNER, HER LIMPFOREARM PENDENT OVER THE BOLSTER, LISTENING. A HEAVY STYE DROOPSOVER HER SLEEPY EYELID.)KITTY: (HICCUPS AGAIN WITH A KICK OF HER HORSED FOOT) O, excuse!ZOE: (PROMPTLY) Your boys thinking of you. Tie a knot on your shift.(KITTY RICKETTS BENDS HER HEAD. HER BOA UNCOILS, SLIDES, GLIDES OVERHER SHOULDER, BACK, ARM, CHAIR TO THE GROUND. LYNCH LIFTS THE CURLEDCATERPILLAR ON HIS WAND. SHE SNAKES HER NECK, NESTLING. STEPHENGLANCES BEHIND AT THE SQUATTED FIGURE WITH ITS CAP BACK TO THE FRONT.)STEPHEN: As a matter of fact it is of no importance whether BenedettoMarcello found it or made it. The rite is the poets rest. It may be anold hymn to Demeter or also illustrate COELA ENARRANT GLORIAM DOMINI.It is susceptible of nodes or modes as far apart as hyperphrygian andmixolydian and of texts so divergent as priests haihooping round Davidsthat is Circes or what am I saying Ceres altar and Davids tip from thestable to his chief bassoonist about the alrightness of his almightiness.MAIS NOM DE NOM, that is another pair of trousers. JETEZ LA GOURME.FAUT QUE JEUNESSE SE PASSE. (HE STOPS, POINTS AT LYNCHS CAP, SMILES,LAUGHS) Which side is your knowledge bump?THE CAP: (WITH SATURNINE SPLEEN) Bah! It is because it is. Womans reason.Jewgreek is greekjew. Extremes meet. Death is the highest form of life. Bah!STEPHEN: You remember fairly accurately all my errors, boasts, mistakes.How long shall I continue to close my eyes to disloyalty? Whetstone!THE CAP: Bah!STEPHEN: Heres another for you. (HE FROWNS) The reason is because thefundamental and the dominant are separated by the greatest possibleinterval which ...THE CAP: Which? Finish. You cant.STEPHEN: (WITH AN EFFORT) Interval which. Is the greatest possible ellipse.Consistent with. The ultimate return. The octave. Which.THE CAP: Which?(OUTSIDE THE GRAMOPHONE BEGINS TO BLARE The Holy City.)STEPHEN: (ABRUPTLY) What went forth to the ends of the world to traversenot itself, God, the sun, Shakespeare, a commercial traveller, havingitself traversed in reality itself becomes that self. Wait a moment. Waita second. Damn that fellows noise in the street. Self which it itself wasineluctably preconditioned to become. ECCO!LYNCH: (WITH A MOCKING WHINNY OF LAUGHTER GRINS AT BLOOM AND ZOE HIGGINS)What a learned speech, eh?ZOE: (BRISKLY) God help your head, he knows more than you have forgotten.(WITH OBESE STUPIDITY FLORRY TALBOT REGARDS STEPHEN.)FLORRY: They say the last day is coming this summer.KITTY: No!ZOE: (EXPLODES IN LAUGHTER) Great unjust God!FLORRY: (OFFENDED) Well, it was in the papers about Antichrist. O,my foots tickling.(RAGGED BAREFOOT NEWSBOYS, JOGGING A WAGTAIL KITE, PATTER PAST,YELLING.)THE NEWSBOYS: Stop press edition. Result of the rockinghorse races.Sea serpent in the royal canal. Safe arrival of Antichrist.(STEPHEN TURNS AND SEES BLOOM.)STEPHEN: A time, times and half a time.(REUBEN I ANTICHRIST, WANDERING JEW, A CLUTCHING HAND OPEN ON HISSPINE, STUMPS FORWARD. ACROSS HIS LOINS IS SLUNG A PILGRIMS WALLETFROM WHICH PROTRUDE PROMISSORY NOTES AND DISHONOURED BILLS. ALOFTOVER HIS SHOULDER HE BEARS A LONG BOATPOLE FROM THE HOOK OF WHICHTHE SODDEN HUDDLED MASS OF HIS ONLY SON, SAVED FROM LIFFEY WATERS,HANGS FROM THE SLACK OF ITS BREECHES. A HOBGOBLIN IN THE IMAGE OFPUNCH COSTELLO, HIPSHOT, CROOKBACKED, HYDROCEPHALIC, PROGNATHICWITH RECEDING FOREHEAD AND ALLY SLOPER NOSE, TUMBLES INSOMERSAULTS THROUGH THE GATHERING DARKNESS.)ALL: What?THE HOBGOBLIN: (HIS JAWS CHATTERING, CAPERS TO AND FRO, GOGGLING HIS EYES,SQUEAKING, KANGAROOHOPPING WITH OUTSTRETCHED CLUTCHING ARMS, THEN ALL ATONCE THRUSTS HIS LIPLESS FACE THROUGH THE FORK OF HIS THIGHS) IL VIENT!CEST MOI! LHOMME QUI RIT! LHOMME PRIMIGENE! (HE WHIRLS ROUND AND ROUNDWITH DERVISH HOWLS) SIEURS ET DAMES, FAITES VOS JEUX! (HE CROUCHES JUGGLINGTINY ROULETTE PLANETS FLY FROM HIS HANDS.) LES JEUX SONT FAITS! (THE PLANETSRUSH TOGETHER, UTTERING CREPITANT CRACKS) RIEN VA PLUS! (THE PLANETS,BUOYANT BALLOONS, SAIL SWOLLEN UP AND AWAY. HE SPRINGS OFF INTO VACUUM.)FLORRY: (SINKING INTO TORPOR, CROSSING HERSELF SECRETLY) The end ofthe world!(A FEMALE TEPID EFFLUVIUM LEAKS OUT FROM HER. NEBULOUS OBSCURITYOCCUPIES SPACE. THROUGH THE DRIFTING FOG WITHOUT THE GRAMOPHONEBLARES OVER COUGHS AND FEETSHUFFLING.)THE GRAMOPHONE: Jerusalem!Open your gates and singHosanna ...(A ROCKET RUSHES UP THE SKY AND BURSTS. A WHITE STAR FILLS FROM IT,PROCLAIMING THE CONSUMMATION OF ALL THINGS AND SECOND COMING OFELIJAH. ALONG AN INFINITE INVISIBLE TIGHTROPE TAUT FROM ZENITH TO NADIRTHE END OF THE WORLD, A TWOHEADED OCTOPUS IN GILLIES KILTS, BUSBYAND TARTAN FILIBEGS, WHIRLS THROUGH THE MURK, HEAD OVER HEELS, IN THEFORM OF THE THREE LEGS OF MAN.)THE END OF THE WORLD: (WITH A SCOTCH ACCENT) Whall dance the keel row,the keel row, the keel row?(OVER THE POSSING DRIFT AND CHOKING BREATHCOUGHS, ELIJAHS VOICE,HARSH AS A CORNCRAKES, JARS ON HIGH. PERSPIRING IN A LOOSE LAWNSURPLICE WITH FUNNEL SLEEVES HE IS SEEN, VERGERFACED, ABOVE A ROSTRUMABOUT WHICH THE BANNER OF OLD GLORY IS DRAPED. HE THUMPS THEPARAPET.)ELIJAH: No yapping, if you please, in this booth. Jake Crane, Creole Sue,Dove Campbell, Abe Kirschner, do your coughing with your mouths shut. Say, Iam operating all this trunk line. Boys, do it now. Gods time is .. Tellmother youll be there. Rush your order and you play a slick ace. Join onright here. Book through to eternity junction, the nonstop run. Just oneword more. Are you a god or a doggone clod? If the second advent came toConey Island are we ready? Florry Christ, Stephen Christ, Zoe Christ,Bloom Christ, Kitty Christ, Lynch Christ, its up to you to sense that cosmicforce. Have we cold feet about the cosmos? No. Be on the side of theangels. Be a prism. You have that something within, the higher self. You canrub shoulders with a Jesus, a Gautama, an Ingersoll. Are you all in thisvibration? I say you are. You once nobble that, congregation, and a buckjoyride to heaven becomes a back number. You got me? Its a lifebrightener,sure. The hottest stuff ever was. Its the whole pie with jam in. Its justthe cutest snappiest line out. It is immense, supersumptuous. It restores. Itvibrates. I know and I am some vibrator. Joking apart and, getting down tobedrock, A. J. Christ Dowie and the harmonial philosophy, have you gotthat? O. K. Seventyseven west sixtyninth street. Got me? Thats it. You callme up by sunphone any old time. Bumboosers, save your stamps. (HE SHOUTS)Now then our glory song. All join heartily in the singing. Encore!(HE SINGS) Jeru ...THE GRAMOPHONE: (DROWNING HIS VOICE) Whorusalaminyourhighhohhhh ... (THEDISC RASPS GRATINGLY AGAINST THE NEEDLE)THE THREE WHORES: (COVERING THEIR EARS, SQUAWK) Ahhkkk!ELIJAH: (IN ROLLEDUP SHIRTSLEEVES, BLACK IN THE FACE, SHOUTS AT THE TOP OFHIS VOICE, HIS ARMS UPLIFTED) Big Brother up there, Mr President, you hearwhat I done just been saying to you. Certainly, I sort of believe strongin you, Mr President. I certainly am thinking now Miss Higgins and MissRicketts got religion way inside them. Certainly seems to me I dont neversee no wusser scared female than the way you been, Miss Florry, just nowas I done seed you. Mr President, you come long and help me save oursisters dear. (HE WINKS AT HIS AUDIENCE) Our Mr President, he twig thewhole lot and he aint saying nothing.KITTY-KATE: I forgot myself. In a weak moment I erred and did what I did onConstitution hill. I was confirmed by the bishop and enrolled in the brownscapular. My mothers sister married a Montmorency. It was a workingplumber was my ruination when I was pure.ZOE-FANNY: I let him larrup it into me for the fun of it.FLORRY-TERESA: It was in consequence of a portwine beverage on top ofHennessys three star. I was guilty with Whelan when he slipped intothe bed.STEPHEN: In the beginning was the word, in the end the world without end.Blessed be the eight beatitudes.(THE BEATITUDES, DIXON, MADDEN, CROTTHERS, COSTELLO, LENEHAN,BANNON, MULLIGAN AND LYNCH IN WHITE SURGICAL STUDENTS GOWNS,FOUR ABREAST, GOOSESTEPPING, TRAMP FIST PAST IN NOISY MARCHING)THE BEATITUDES: (INCOHERENTLY) Beer beef battledog buybull businum barnumbuggerum bishop.LYSTER: (IN QUAKERGREY KNEEBREECHES AND BROADBRIMMED HAT, SAYS DISCREETLY)He is our friend. I need not mention names. Seek thou the light.(HE CORANTOS BY. BEST ENTERS IN HAIRDRESSERS ATTIRE, SHINILYLAUNDERED, HIS LOCKS IN CURLPAPERS. HE LEADS JOHN EGLINTON WHOWEARS A MANDARINS KIMONO OF NANKEEN YELLOW, LIZARDLETTERED, ANDA HIGH PAGODA HAT.)BEST: (SMILING, LIFTS THE HAT AND DISPLAYS A SHAVEN POLL FROM THE CROWN OFWHICH BRISTLES A PIGTAIL TOUPEE TIED WITH AN ORANGE TOPKNOT) I was justbeautifying him, dont you know. A thing of beauty, dont you know, Yeatssays, or I mean, Keats says.JOHN EGLINTON: (PRODUCES A GREENCAPPED DARK LANTERN AND FLASHES IT TOWARDSA CORNER: WITH CARPING ACCENT) Esthetics and cosmetics are for theboudoir. I am out for truth. Plain truth for a plain man. Tanderagee wantsthe facts and means to get them.(IN THE CONE OF THE SEARCHLIGHT BEHIND THE COALSCUTTLE, OLLAVE,HOLYEYED, THE BEARDED FIGURE OF MANANAUN MACLIR BROODS, CHIN ONKNEES. HE RISES SLOWLY. A COLD SEAWIND BLOWS FROM HIS DRUID MOUTH.ABOUT HIS HEAD WRITHE EELS AND ELVERS. HE IS ENCRUSTED WITH WEEDSAND SHELLS. HIS RIGHT HAND HOLDS A BICYCLE PUMP. HIS LEFT HANDGRASPS A HUGE CRAYFISH BY ITS TWO TALONS.)MANANAUN MACLIR: (WITH A VOICE OF WAVES) Aum! Hek! Wal! Ak! Lub! Mor! Ma!White yoghin of the gods. Occult pimander of Hermes Trismegistos. (WITH AVOICE OF WHISTLING SEAWIND) Punarjanam patsypunjaub! I wont have my legpulled. It has been said by one: beware the left, the cult of Shakti. (WITHA CRY OF STORMBIRDS) Shakti Shiva, darkhidden Father! (HE SMITES WITH HISBICYCLE PUMP THE CRAYFISH IN HIS LEFT HAND. ON ITS COOPERATIVE DIAL GLOW THETWELVE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC. HE WAILS WITH THE VEHEMENCE OF THE OCEAN.)Aum! Baum! Pyjaum! I am the light of the homestead! I am the dreamerycreamery butter.(A SKELETON JUDASHAND STRANGLES THE LIGHT. THE GREEN LIGHT WANES TOMAUVE. THE GASJET WAILS WHISTLING.)THE GASJET: Pooah! Pfuiiiiiii!(ZOE RUNS TO THE CHANDELIER AND, CROOKING HER LEG, ADJUSTS THE MANTLE.)ZOE: Who has a fag as Im here?LYNCH: (TOSSING A CIGARETTE ON TO THE TABLE) Here.ZOE: (HER HEAD PERCHED ASIDE IN MOCK PRIDE) Is that the way to hand the POTto a lady? (SHE STRETCHES UP TO LIGHT THE CIGARETTE OVER THE FLAME,TWIRLING IT SLOWLY, SHOWING THE BROWN TUFTS OF HER ARMPITS. LYNCH WITH HISPOKER LIFTS BOLDLY A SIDE OF HER SLIP. BARE FROM HER GARTERS UP HER FLESHAPPEARS UNDER THE SAPPHIRE A NIXIES GREEN. SHE PUFFS CALMLY AT HERCIGARETTE.) Can you see the beautyspot of my behind?LYNCH: Im not lookingZOE: (MAKES SHEEPS EYES) No? You wouldnt do a less thing. Would yousuck a lemon?(SQUINTING IN MOCK SHAME SHE GLANCES WITH SIDELONG MEANING ATBLOOM, THEN TWISTS ROUND TOWARDS HIM, PULLING HER SLIP FREE OF THEPOKER. BLUE FLUID AGAIN FLOWS OVER HER FLESH. BLOOM STANDS, SMILINGDESIROUSLY, TWIRLING HIS THUMBS. KITTY RICKETTS LICKS HER MIDDLEFINGER WITH HER SPITTLE AND, GAZING IN THE MIRROR, SMOOTHS BOTHEYEBROWS. LIPOTI VIRAG, BASILICOGRAMMATE, CHUTES RAPIDLY DOWNTHROUGH THE CHIMNEYFLUE AND STRUTS TWO STEPS TO THE LEFT ON GAWKYPINK STILTS. HE IS SAUSAGED INTO SEVERAL OVERCOATS AND WEARS A BROWNMACINTOSH UNDER WHICH HE HOLDS A ROLL OF PARCHMENT. IN HIS LEFT EYEFLASHES THE MONOCLE OF CASHEL BOYLE OCONNOR FITZMAURICE TISDALLFARRELL. ON HIS HEAD IS PERCHED AN EGYPTIAN PSHENT TWO QUILLSPROJECT OVER HIS EARS.)VIRAG: (HEELS TOGETHER, BOWS) My name is Virag Lipoti, of Szombathely. (HECOUGHS THOUGHTFULLY, DRILY) Promiscuous nakedness is much in evidencehereabouts, eh? Inadvertently her backview revealed the fact that she is notwearing those rather intimate garments of which you are a particulardevotee. The injection mark on the thigh I hope you perceived? Good.BLOOM: Granpapachi. But ...VIRAG: Number two on the other hand, she of the cherry rouge and coiffeusewhite, whose hair owes not a little to our tribal elixir of gopherwood, isin walking costume and tightly staysed by her sit, I should opine. Backbonein front, so to say. Correct me but I always understood that the act soperformed by skittish humans with glimpses of lingerie appealed to you invirtue of its exhibitionististicicity. In a word. Hippogriff. Am I right?BLOOM: She is rather lean.VIRAG: (NOT UNPLEASANTLY) Absolutely! Well observed and those pannierpockets of the skirt and slightly pegtop effect are devised to suggestbunchiness of hip. A new purchase at some monster sale for which a gullhas been mulcted. Meretricious finery to deceive the eye. Observe theattention to details of dustspecks. Never put on you tomorrow what you canwear today. Parallax! (WITH A NERVOUS TWITCH OF HIS HEAD) Did you hear mybrain go snap? Pollysyllabax!BLOOM: (AN ELBOW RESTING IN A HAND, A FOREFINGER AGAINST HIS CHEEK)She seems sad.VIRAG: (CYNICALLY, HIS WEASEL TEETH BARED YELLOW, DRAWS DOWN HIS LEFT EYEWITH A FINGER AND BARKS HOARSELY) Hoax! Beware of the flapper and bogusmournful. Lily of the alley. All possess bachelors button discovered byRualdus Columbus. Tumble her. Columble her. Chameleon. (MOREGENIALLY) Well then, permit me to draw your attention to item number three.There is plenty of her visible to the naked eye. Observe the mass ofoxygenated vegetable matter on her skull. What ho, she bumps! The uglyduckling of the party, longcasted and deep in keel.BLOOM: (REGRETFULLY) When you come out without your gun.VIRAG: We can do you all brands, mild, medium and strong. Pay your money,take your choice. How happy could you be with either ...BLOOM: With ...?VIRAG: (HIS TONGUE UPCURLING) Lyum! Look. Her beam is broad. She is coatedwith quite a considerable layer of fat. Obviously mammal in weight of bosomyou remark that she has in front well to the fore two protuberances of veryrespectable dimensions, inclined to fall in the noonday soupplate, while onher rere lower down are two additional protuberances, suggestive of potentrectum and tumescent for palpation, which leave nothing to be desired savecompactness. Such fleshy parts are the product of careful nurture. Whencoopfattened their livers reach an elephantine size. Pellets of new breadwith fennygreek and gumbenjamin swamped down by potions of green teaendow them during their brief existence with natural pincushions of quitecolossal blubber. That suits your book, eh? Fleshhotpots of Egypt tohanker after. Wallow in it. Lycopodium. (HIS THROAT TWITCHES) Slapbang!There he goes again.BLOOM: The stye I dislike.VIRAG: (ARCHES HIS EYEBROWS) Contact with a goldring, they say. ARGUMENTUMAD FEMINAM, as we said in old Rome and ancient Greece in the consulship ofDiplodocus and Ichthyosauros. For the rest Eves sovereign remedy. Notfor sale. Hire only. Huguenot. (HE TWITCHES) It is a funny sound. (HECOUGHS ENCOURAGINGLY) But possibly it is only a wart. I presume you shallhave remembered what I will have taught you on that head? Wheatenmealwith honey and nutmeg.BLOOM: (REFLECTING) Wheatenmeal with lycopodium and syllabax. This searchingordeal. It has been an unusually fatiguing day, a chapter of accidents. Wait.I mean, wartsblood spreads warts, you said ...VIRAG: (SEVERELY, HIS NOSE HARDHUMPED, HIS SIDE EYE WINKING) Stop twirlingyour thumbs and have a good old thunk. See, you have forgotten. Exerciseyour mnemotechnic. LA CAUSA E SANTA. Tara. Tara. (ASIDE) He will surelyremember.BLOOM: Rosemary also did I understand you to say or willpower over parasitictissues. Then nay no I have an inkling. The touch of a deadhand cures.Mnemo?VIRAG: (EXCITEDLY) I say so. I say so. Een so. Technic. (HE TAPS HISPARCHMENTROLL ENERGETICALLY) This book tells you how to act with alldescriptive particulars. Consult index for agitated fear of aconite,melancholy of muriatic, priapic pulsatilla. Virag is going to talk aboutamputation. Our old friend caustic. They must be starved. Snip off withhorsehair under the denned neck. But, to change the venue to the Bulgar andthe Basque, have you made up your mind whether you like or dislike womenin male habiliments? (WITH A DRY SNIGGER) You intended to devote an entireyear to the study of the religious problem and the summer months of  tosquare the circle and win that million. Pomegranate! From the sublime tothe ridiculous is but a step. Pyjamas, let us say? Or stockingette gussettedknickers, closed? Or, put we the case, those complicated combinations,camiknickers? (HE CROWS DERISIVELY) Keekeereekee!(BLOOM SURVEYS UNCERTAINLY THE THREE WHORES THEN GAZES AT THEVEILED MAUVE LIGHT, HEARING THE EVERFLYING MOTH.)BLOOM: I wanted then to have now concluded. Nightdress was never. Hencethis. But tomorrow is a new day will be. Past was is today. What now iswill then morrow as now was be past yester.VIRAG: (PROMPTS IN A PIGS WHISPER) Insects of the day spend their briefexistence in reiterated coition, lured by the smell of the inferiorlypulchritudinous fumale possessing extendified pudendal nerve in dorsalregion. Pretty Poll! (HIS YELLOW PARROTBEAK GABBLES NASALLY) They had aproverb in the Carpathians in or about the year five thousand five hundredand fifty of our era. One tablespoonful of honey will attract friend Bruinmore than half a dozen barrels of first choice malt vinegar. Bears buzzbothers bees. But of this apart. At another time we may resume.We were very pleased, we others. (HE COUGHS AND, BENDING HIS BROW,RUBS HIS NOSE THOUGHTFULLY WITH A SCOOPING HAND) You shall findthat these night insects follow the light. An illusion for remembertheir complex unadjustable eye. For all these knotty points see theseventeenth book of my Fundamentals of Sexology or the Love Passionwhich Doctor L.B. says is the book sensation of the year. Some,to example, there are again whose movements are automatic. Perceive.That is his appropriate sun. Nightbird nightsun nighttown. Chaseme, Charley! (he blows into Blooms ear) Buzz!BLOOM: Bee or bluebottle too other day butting shadow on wall dazed selfthen me wandered dazed down shirt good job I ...VIRAG: (HIS FACE IMPASSIVE, LAUGHS IN A RICH FEMININE KEY) Splendid!Spanish fly in his fly or mustard plaster on his dibble. (HE GOBBLESGLUTTONOUSLY WITH TURKEY WATTLES) Bubbly jock! Bubbly jock! Where are we?Open Sesame! Cometh forth! (HE UNROLLS HIS PARCHMENT RAPIDLY AND READS, HISGLOWWORMS NOSE RUNNING BACKWARDS OVER THE LETTERS WHICH HE CLAWS) Stay,good friend. I bring thee thy answer. Redbank oysters will shortly be uponus. Im the best ocook. Those succulent bivalves may help us and thetruffles of Perigord, tubers dislodged through mister omnivorous porker,were unsurpassed in cases of nervous debility or viragitis. Though theystink yet they sting. (HE WAGS HIS HEAD WITH CACKLING RAILLERY) Jocular. Withmy eyeglass in my ocular. (HE SNEEZES) Amen!BLOOM: (ABSENTLY) Ocularly womans bivalve case is worse. Always opensesame. The cloven sex. Why they fear vermin, creeping things. Yet Eve andthe serpent contradicts. Not a historical fact. Obvious analogy to my idea.Serpents too are gluttons for womans milk. Wind their way through milesof omnivorous forest to sucksucculent her breast dry. Like thosebubblyjocular Roman matrons one reads of in Elephantuliasis.VIRAG: (HIS MOUTH PROJECTED IN HARD WRINKLES, EYES STONILY FORLORNLYCLOSED, PSALMS IN OUTLANDISH MONOTONE) That the cows with their thosedistended udders that they have been the the known ...BLOOM: I am going to scream. I beg your pardon. Ah? So. (HE REPEATS)Spontaneously to seek out the saurians lair in order to entrust their teatsto his avid suction. Ant milks aphis. (profoundly) Instinct rules the world.In life. In death.VIRAG: (HEAD ASKEW, ARCHES HIS BACK AND HUNCHED WINGSHOULDERS, PEERS AT THEMOTH OUT OF BLEAR BULGED EYES, POINTS A HORNING CLAW AND CRIES) Whosmoth moth? Whos dear Gerald? Dear Ger, that you? O dear, he is Gerald.O, I much fear he shall be most badly burned. Will some pleashe pershonnot now impediment so catastrophics mit agitation of firstclasstablenumpkin? (HE MEWS) Puss puss puss puss! (HE SIGHS, DRAWS BACK ANDSTARES SIDEWAYS DOWN WITH DROPPING UNDERJAW) Well, well. He doth restanon. (he snaps his jaws suddenly on the air)THE MOTH:    Im a tiny tiny thing    Ever flying in the spring    Round and round a ringaring.    Long ago I was a king    Now I do this kind of thing    On the wing, on the wing!    Bing!(HE RUSHES AGAINST THE MAUVE SHADE, FLAPPING NOISILY) Pretty pretty prettypretty pretty pretty petticoats.(FROM LEFT UPPER ENTRANCE WITH TWO GLIDING STEPS HENRY FLOWERCOMES FORWARD TO LEFT FRONT CENTRE. HE WEARS A DARK MANTLE ANDDROOPING PLUMED SOMBRERO. HE CARRIES A SILVERSTRINGED INLAIDDULCIMER AND A LONGSTEMMED BAMBOO JACOBS PIPE, ITS CLAY BOWLFASHIONED AS A FEMALE HEAD. HE WEARS DARK VELVET HOSE ANDSILVERBUCKLED PUMPS. HE HAS THE ROMANTIC SAVIOURS FACE WITHFLOWING LOCKS, THIN BEARD AND MOUSTACHE. HIS SPINDLELEGS ANDSPARROW FEET ARE THOSE OF THE TENOR MARIO, PRINCE OF CANDIA. HESETTLES DOWN HIS GOFFERED RUFFS AND MOISTENS HIS LIPS WITH A PASSAGEOF HIS AMOROUS TONGUE.)HENRY: (IN A LOW DULCET VOICE, TOUCHING THE STRINGS OF HIS GUITAR) Thereis a flower that bloometh.(VIRAG TRUCULENT, HIS JOWL SET, STARES AT THE LAMP. GRAVE BLOOMREGARDS ZOES NECK. HENRY GALLANT TURNS WITH PENDANT DEWLAP TO THE PIANO.)STEPHEN: (TO HIMSELF) Play with your eyes shut. Imitate pa. Filling mybelly with husks of swine. Too much of this. I will arise and go to my.Expect this is the. Steve, thou art in a parlous way. Must visit old Deasyor telegraph. Our interview of this morning has left on me a deepimpression. Though our ages. Will write fully tomorrow. Im partiallydrunk, by the way. (HE TOUCHES THE KEYS AGAIN) Minor chord comes now. Yes.Not much however.(ALMIDANO ARTIFONI HOLDS OUT A BATONROLL OF MUSIC WITH VIGOROUSMOUSTACHEWORK.)ARTIFONI: CI RIFLETTA. LEI ROVINA TUTTO.FLORRY: Sing us something. Loves old sweet song.STEPHEN: No voice. I am a most finished artist. Lynch, did I show you theletter about the lute?FLORRY: (SMIRKING) The bird that can sing and wont sing.(THE SIAMESE TWINS, PHILIP DRUNK AND PHILIP SOBER, TWO OXFORDDONS WITH LAWNMOWERS, APPEAR IN THE WINDOW EMBRASURE. BOTH AREMASKED WITH MATTHEW ARNOLDS FACE.)PHILIP SOBER: Take a fools advice. All is not well. Work it out with thebuttend of a pencil, like a good young idiot. Three pounds twelve you got,two notes, one sovereign, two crowns, if youth but knew. Mooneys enville, Mooneys sur mer, the Moira, Larchets, Holles street hospital,Burkes. Eh? I am watching you.PHILIP DRUNK: (IMPATIENTLY) Ah, bosh, man. Go to hell! I paid my way. If Icould only find out about octaves. Reduplication of personality. Who wasit told me his name? (HIS LAWNMOWER BEGINS TO PURR) Aha, yes. ZOE MOU SASAGAPO. Have a notion I was here before. When was it not Atkinson his cardI have somewhere. Mac Somebody. Unmack I have it. He told me about, holdon, Swinburne, was it, no?FLORRY: And the song?STEPHEN: Spirit is willing but the flesh is weak.FLORRY: Are you out of Maynooth? Youre like someone I knew once.STEPHEN: Out of it now. (TO HIMSELF) Clever.PHILIP DRUNK AND PHILIP SOBER: (THEIR LAWNMOWERS PURRING WITH A RIGADOONOF GRASSHALMS) Clever ever. Out of it out of it. By the bye have you thebook, the thing, the ashplant? Yes, there it, yes. Cleverever outofitnow.Keep in condition. Do like us.ZOE: There was a priest down here two nights ago to do his bit of businesswith his coat buttoned up. You neednt try to hide, I says to him. I knowyouve a Roman collar.VIRAG: Perfectly logical from his standpoint. Fall of man. (HARSHLY, HISPUPILS WAXING) To hell with the pope! Nothing new under the sun. I am theVirag who disclosed the Sex Secrets of Monks and Maidens. Why I left thechurch of Rome. Read the Priest, the Woman and the Confessional. Penrose.Flipperty Jippert. (HE WRIGGLES) Woman, undoing with sweet pudor her beltof rushrope, offers her allmoist yoni to mans lingam. Short time after manpresents woman with pieces of jungle meat. Woman shows joy and coversherself with featherskins. Man loves her yoni fiercely with big lingam, thestiff one. (HE CRIES) COACTUS VOLUI. Then giddy woman will run about.Strong man grapses womans wrist. Woman squeals, bites, spucks. Man,now fierce angry, strikes womans fat yadgana. (HE CHASES HIS TAIL)Piffpaff! Popo! (HE STOPS, SNEEZES) Pchp! (he worries his butt) Prrrrrht!LYNCH: I hope you gave the good father a penance. Nine glorias forshooting a bishop.ZOE: (SPOUTS WALRUS SMOKE THROUGH HER NOSTRILS) He couldnt get aconnection. Only, you know, sensation. A dry rush.BLOOM: Poor man!ZOE: (LIGHTLY) Only for what happened him.BLOOM: How?VIRAG: (A DIABOLIC RICTUS OF BLACK LUMINOSITY CONTRACTING HIS VISAGE,CRANES HIS SCRAGGY NECK FORWARD. HE LIFTS A MOONCALF NOZZLE AND HOWLS.)VERFLUCHTE GOIM! He had a father, forty fathers. He never existed.Pig God! He had two left feet. He was Judas Iacchia, a Libyan eunuch,the popes bastard. (HE LEANS OUT ON TORTURED FOREPAWS, ELBOWS BENT RIGID,HIS EYE AGONISING IN HIS FLAT SKULLNECK AND YELPS OVER THE MUTE WORLD)A son of a whore. Apocalypse.KITTY: And Mary Shortall that was in the lock with the pox she got fromJimmy Pidgeon in the blue caps had a child off him that couldnt swallowand was smothered with the convulsions in the mattress and we allsubscribed for the funeral.PHILIP DRUNK: (GRAVELY) QUI VOUS A MIS DANS CETTE FICHUE POSITION,PHILIPPE?PHILIP SOBER: (GAILY) CETAIT LE SACRE PIGEON, PHILIPPE.(KITTY UNPINS HER HAT AND SETS IT DOWN CALMLY, PATTING HER HENNAHAIR. AND A PRETTIER, A DAINTIER HEAD OF WINSOME CURLS WAS NEVER SEENON A WHORES SHOULDERS. LYNCH PUTS ON HER HAT. SHE WHIPS IT OFF.)LYNCH: (LAUGHS) And to such delights has Metchnikoff inoculatedanthropoid apes.FLORRY: (NODS) Locomotor ataxy.ZOE: (GAILY) O, my dictionary.LYNCH: Three wise virgins.VIRAG: (AGUESHAKEN, PROFUSE YELLOW SPAWN FOAMING OVER HIS BONY EPILEPTICLIPS) She sold lovephiltres, whitewax, orangeflower. Panther, the Romancenturion, polluted her with his genitories. (HE STICKS OUT A FLICKERINGPHOSPHORESCENT SCORPION TONGUE, HIS HAND ON HIS FORK) Messiah! He bursther tympanum. (WITH GIBBERING BABOONS CRIES HE JERKS HIS HIPS IN THECYNICAL SPASM) Hik! Hek! Hak! Hok! Huk! Kok! Kuk!(BEN JUMBO DOLLARD, RUBICUND, MUSCLEBOUND, HAIRYNOSTRILLED,HUGEBEARDED, CABBAGEEARED, SHAGGYCHESTED, SHOCKMANED, FAT-PAPPED, STANDS FORTH, HIS LOINS AND GENITALS TIGHTENED INTO A PAIROF BLACK BATHING BAGSLOPS.)BEN DOLLARD: (NAKKERING CASTANET BONES IN HIS HUGE PADDED PAWS, YODELSJOVIALLY IN BASE BARRELTONE) When love absorbs my ardent soul.(THE VIRGINS NURSE CALLAN AND NURSE QUIGLEY BURST THROUGH THERINGKEEPERS AND THE ROPES AND MOB HIM WITH OPEN ARMS.)THE VIRGINS: (GUSHINGLY) Big Ben! Ben my Chree!A VOICE: Hold that fellow with the bad breeches.BEN DOLLARD: (SMITES HIS THIGH IN ABUNDANT LAUGHTER) Hold him now.HENRY: (CARESSING ON HIS BREAST A SEVERED FEMALE HEAD, MURMURS)Thine heart, mine love. (HE PLUCKS HIS LUTESTRINGS) When first I saw ...VIRAG: (SLOUGHING HIS SKINS, HIS MULTITUDINOUS PLUMAGE MOULTING) Rats! (HEYAWNS, SHOWING A COALBLACK THROAT, AND CLOSES HIS JAWS BY AN UPWARD PUSHOF HIS PARCHMENTROLL) After having said which I took my departure.Farewell. Fare thee well. DRECK!(HENRY FLOWER COMBS HIS MOUSTACHE AND BEARD RAPIDLY WITH APOCKETCOMB AND GIVES A COWS LICK TO HIS HAIR. STEERED BY HIS RAPIER,HE GLIDES TO THE DOOR, HIS WILD HARP SLUNG BEHIND HIM. VIRAG REACHESTHE DOOR IN TWO UNGAINLY STILTHOPS, HIS TAIL COCKED, AND DEFTLY CLAPSSIDEWAYS ON THE WALL A PUSYELLOW FLYBILL, BUTTING IT WITH HIS HEAD.)THE FLYBILL: K. II. Post No Bills. Strictly confidential. Dr Hy Franks.HENRY: All is lost now.(VIRAG UNSCREWS HIS HEAD IN A TRICE AND HOLDS IT UNDER HIS ARM.)VIRAGS HEAD: Quack!(EXEUNT SEVERALLY.)STEPHEN: (OVER HIS SHOULDER TO ZOE) You would have preferred the fightingparson who founded the protestant error. But beware Antisthenes, the dogsage, and the last end of Arius Heresiarchus. The agony in the closet.LYNCH: All one and the same God to her.STEPHEN: (DEVOUTLY) And sovereign Lord of all things.FLORRY: (TO STEPHEN) Im sure youre a spoiled priest. Or a monk.LYNCH: He is. A cardinals son.STEPHEN: Cardinal sin. Monks of the screw.(HIS EMINENCE SIMON STEPHEN CARDINAL DEDALUS, PRIMATE OF ALLIRELAND, APPEARS IN THE DOORWAY, DRESSED IN RED SOUTANE, SANDALSAND SOCKS SEVEN DWARF SIMIAN ACOLYTES, ALSO IN RED, CARDINAL SINS,UPHOLD HIS TRAIN, PEEPING UNDER IT HE WEARS A BATTERED SILK HATSIDEWAYS ON HIS HEAD. HIS THUMBS ARE STUCK IN HIS ARMPITS AND HISPALMS OUTSPREAD. ROUND HIS NECK HANGS A ROSARY OF CORKS ENDING ONHIS BREAST IN A CORKSCREW CROSS. RELEASING HIS THUMBS, HE INVOKESGRACE FROM ON HIGH WITH LARGE WAVE GESTURES AND PROCLAIMS WITHBLOATED POMP:)THE CARDINAL:    Conservio lies captured    He lies in the lowest dungeon    With manacles and chains around his limbs    Weighing upwards of three tons.(HE LOOKS AT ALL FOR A MOMENT, HIS RIGHT EYE CLOSED TIGHT, HIS LEFTCHEEK PUFFED OUT THEN, UNABLE TO REPRESS HIS MERRIMENT, HE ROCKS TOAND FRO, ARMS AKIMBO, AND SINGS WITH BROAD ROLLICKING HUMOUR:)    O, the poor little fellow    Hihihihihis legs they were yellow    He was plump, fat and heavy and brisk as a snake    But some bloody savage    To graize his white cabbage    He murdered Nell Flahertys duckloving drake.(A MULTITUDE OF MIDGES SWARMS WHITE OVER HIS ROBE. HE SCRATCHESHIMSELF WITH CROSSED ARMS AT HIS RIBS, GRIMACING, AND EXCLAIMS:)Im suffering the agony of the damned. By the hoky fiddle, thanks be toJesus those funny little chaps are not unanimous. If they were theyd walkme off the face of the bloody globe.(HIS HEAD ASLANT HE BLESSES CURTLY WITH FORE AND MIDDLE FINGERS,IMPARTS THE EASTER KISS AND DOUBLESHUFFLES OFF COMICALLY, SWAYING HISHAT FROM SIDE TO SIDE, SHRINKING QUICKLY TO THE SIZE OF HISTRAINBEARERS. THE DWARF ACOLYTES, GIGGLING, PEEPING, NUDGING, OGLING,EASTERKISSING, ZIGZAG BEHIND HIM. HIS VOICE IS HEARD MELLOW FROMAFAR, MERCIFUL MALE, MELODIOUS:)    Shall carry my heart to thee,    Shall carry my heart to thee,    And the breath of the balmy night    Shall carry my heart to thee!(THE TRICK DOORHANDLE TURNS.)THE DOORHANDLE: Theeee!ZOE: The devil is in that door.(A MALE FORM PASSES DOWN THE CREAKING STAIRCASE AND IS HEARDTAKING THE WATERPROOF AND HAT FROM THE RACK. BLOOM STARTS FORWARDINVOLUNTARILY AND, HALF CLOSING THE DOOR AS HE PASSES, TAKES THECHOCOLATE FROM HIS POCKET AND OFFERS IT NERVOUSLY TO ZOE.)ZOE: (SNIFFS HIS HAIR BRISKLY) Hmmm! Thank your mother for the rabbits.Im very fond of what I like.BLOOM: (HEARING A MALE VOICE IN TALK WITH THE WHORES ON THE DOORSTEP,PRICKS HIS EARS) If it were he? After? Or because not? Or the doubleevent?ZOE: (TEARS OPEN THE SILVERFOIL) Fingers was made before forks. (SHE BREAKSOFF AND NIBBLES A PIECE GIVES A PIECE TO KITTY RICKETTS AND THEN TURNSKITTENISHLY TO LYNCH) No objection to French lozenges? (HE NODS. SHE TAUNTSHIM.) Have it now or wait till you get it? (HE OPENS HIS MOUTH, HIS HEADCOCKED. SHE WHIRLS THE PRIZE IN LEFT CIRCLE. HIS HEAD FOLLOWS. SHE WHIRLSIT BACK IN RIGHT CIRCLE. HE EYES HER.) Catch!(SHE TOSSES A PIECE. WITH AN ADROIT SNAP HE CATCHES IT AND BITES ITTHROUGH WITH A CRACK.)KITTY: (CHEWING) The engineer I was with at the bazaar does have lovely ones.Full of the best liqueurs. And the viceroy was there with his lady. The gaswe had on the Tofts hobbyhorses. Im giddy still.BLOOM: (IN SVENGALIS FUR OVERCOAT, WITH FOLDED ARMS AND NAPOLEONIC FORELOCK,FROWNS IN VENTRILOQUIAL EXORCISM WITH PIERCING EAGLE GLANCE TOWARDS THEDOOR. THEN RIGID WITH LEFT FOOT ADVANCED HE MAKES A SWIFT PASS WITHIMPELLING FINGERS AND GIVES THE SIGN OF PAST MASTER, DRAWING HIS RIGHT ARMDOWNWARDS FROM HIS LEFT SHOULDER.) Go, go, go, I conjure you, whoever youare!(A MALE COUGH AND TREAD ARE HEARD PASSING THROUGH THE MISTOUTSIDE. BLOOMS FEATURES RELAX. HE PLACES A HAND IN HIS WAISTCOAT,POSING CALMLY. ZOE OFFERS HIM CHOCOLATE.)BLOOM: (SOLEMNLY) Thanks.ZOE: Do as youre bid. Here!(A FIRM HEELCLACKING TREAD IS HEARD ON THE STAIRS.)BLOOM: (TAKES THE CHOCOLATE) Aphrodisiac? Tansy and pennyroyal. But I boughtit. Vanilla calms or? Mnemo. Confused light confuses memory. Red influenceslupus. Colours affect womens characters, any they have. This black makesme sad. Eat and be merry for tomorrow. (HE EATS) Influence taste too,mauve. But it is so long since I. Seems new. Aphro. That priest. Must come.Better late than never. Try truffles at Andrews.(THE DOOR OPENS. BELLA COHEN, A MASSIVE WHOREMISTRESS, ENTERS. SHEIS DRESSED IN A THREEQUARTER IVORY GOWN, FRINGED ROUND THE HEM WITHTASSELLED SELVEDGE, AND COOLS HERSELF FLIRTING A BLACK HORN FAN LIKEMINNIE HAUCK IN CARMEN. ON HER LEFT HAND ARE WEDDING ANDKEEPER RINGS. HER EYES ARE DEEPLY CARBONED. SHE HAS A SPROUTINGMOUSTACHE. HER OLIVE FACE IS HEAVY, SLIGHTLY SWEATED AND FULLNOSEDWITH ORANGETAINTED NOSTRILS. SHE HAS LARGE PENDANT BERYL EARDROPS.)BELLA: My word! Im all of a mucksweat.(SHE GLANCES ROUND HER AT THE COUPLES THEN HER EYES REST ON BLOOMWITH HARD INSISTENCE. HER LARGE FAN WINNOWS WIND TOWARDS HERHEATED FACENECK AND EMBONPOINT. HER FALCON EYES GLITTER.)THE FAN: (FLIRTING QUICKLY, THEN SLOWLY) Married, I see.BLOOM: Yes. Partly, I have mislaid ...THE FAN: (HALF OPENING, THEN CLOSING) And the missus is master.Petticoat government.BLOOM: (LOOKS DOWN WITH A SHEEPISH GRIN) That is so.THE FAN: (FOLDING TOGETHER, RESTS AGAINST HER LEFT EARDROP) Have youforgotten me?BLOOM: Yes. Yo.THE FAN: (FOLDED AKIMBO AGAINST HER WAIST) Is me her was you dreamedbefore? Was then she him you us since knew? Am all them and the samenow we?(BELLA APPROACHES, GENTLY TAPPING WITH THE FAN.)BLOOM: (WINCING) Powerful being. In my eyes read that slumber whichwomen love.THE FAN: (TAPPING) We have met. You are mine. It is fate.BLOOM: (COWED) Exuberant female. Enormously I desiderate your domination. Iam exhausted, abandoned, no more young. I stand, so to speak, with anunposted letter bearing the extra regulation fee before the too late box ofthe general postoffice of human life. The door and window open at a rightangle cause a draught of thirtytwo feet per second according to the law offalling bodies. I have felt this instant a twinge of sciatica in my leftglutear muscle. It runs in our family. Poor dear papa, a widower, was aregular barometer from it. He believed in animal heat. A skin of tabby linedhis winter waistcoat. Near the end, remembering king David and the Sunamite,he shared his bed with Athos, faithful after death. A dogs spittle as youprobably ... (HE WINCES) Ah!RICHIE GOULDING: (BAGWEIGHTED, PASSES THE DOOR) Mocking is catch. Bestvalue in Dub. Fit for a princes. Liver and kidney.THE FAN: (TAPPING) All things end. Be mine. Now,BLOOM: (UNDECIDED) All now? I should not have parted with my talisman. Rain,exposure at dewfall on the searocks, a peccadillo at my time of life. Everyphenomenon has a natural cause.THE FAN: (POINTS DOWNWARDS SLOWLY) You may.BLOOM: (LOOKS DOWNWARDS AND PERCEIVES HER UNFASTENED BOOTLACE) We areobserved.THE FAN: (POINTS DOWNWARDS QUICKLY) You must.BLOOM: (WITH DESIRE, WITH RELUCTANCE) I can make a true black knot. Learnedwhen I served my time and worked the mail order line for Kelletts.Experienced hand. Every knot says a lot. Let me. In courtesy. I knelt oncebefore today. Ah!(BELLA RAISES HER GOWN SLIGHTLY AND, STEADYING HER POSE, LIFTS TO THEEDGE OF A CHAIR A PLUMP BUSKINED HOOF AND A FULL PASTERN,SILKSOCKED. BLOOM, STIFFLEGGED, AGING, BENDS OVER HER HOOF AND WITHGENTLE FINGERS DRAWS OUT AND IN HER LACES.)BLOOM: (MURMURS LOVINGLY) To be a shoefitter in Manfields was my lovesyoung dream, the darling joys of sweet buttonhooking, to lace upcrisscrossed to kneelength the dressy kid footwear satinlined, soincredibly impossibly small, of Clyde Road ladies. Even their wax modelRaymonde I visited daily to admire her cobweb hose and stick of rhubarbtoe, as worn in Paris.THE HOOF: Smell my hot goathide. Feel my royal weight.BLOOM: (CROSSLACING) Too tight?THE HOOF: If you bungle, Handy Andy, Ill kick your football for you.BLOOM: Not to lace the wrong eyelet as I did the night of the bazaar dance.Bad luck. Hook in wrong tache of her ... person you mentioned. That nightshe met ... Now!(HE KNOTS THE LACE. BELLA PLACES HER FOOT ON THE FLOOR. BLOOM RAISESHIS HEAD. HER HEAVY FACE, HER EYES STRIKE HIM IN MIDBROW. HIS EYESGROW DULL, DARKER AND POUCHED, HIS NOSE THICKENS.)BLOOM: (MUMBLES) Awaiting your further orders we remain, gentlemen, ...BELLO: (WITH A HARD BASILISK STARE, IN A BARITONE VOICE) Hound ofdishonour!BLOOM: (INFATUATED) Empress!BELLO: (HIS HEAVY CHEEKCHOPS SAGGING) Adorer of the adulterous rump!BLOOM: (PLAINTIVELY) Hugeness!BELLO: Dungdevourer!BLOOM: (WITH SINEWS SEMIFLEXED) Magmagnificence!BELLO: Down! (HE TAPS HER ON THE SHOULDER WITH HIS FAN) Incline feetforward! Slide left foot one pace back! You will fall. You are falling.On the hands down!BLOOM: (HER EYES UPTURNED IN THE SIGN OF ADMIRATION, CLOSING, YAPS)Truffles!(WITH A PIERCING EPILEPTIC CRY SHE SINKS ON ALL FOURS, GRUNTING,SNUFFLING, ROOTING AT HIS FEET: THEN LIES, SHAMMING DEAD, WITH EYESSHUT TIGHT, TREMBLING EYELIDS, BOWED UPON THE GROUND IN THE ATTITUDEOF MOST EXCELLENT MASTER.)BELLO: (WITH BOBBED HAIR, PURPLE GILLS, FIT MOUSTACHE RINGS ROUND HIS SHAVENMOUTH, IN MOUNTAINEERS PUTTEES, GREEN SILVERBUTTONED COAT, SPORT SKIRT ANDALPINE HAT WITH MOORCOCKS FEATHER, HIS HANDS STUCK DEEP IN HIS BREECHESPOCKETS, PLACES HIS HEEL ON HER NECK AND GRINDS IT IN) Footstool! Feel myentire weight. Bow, bondslave, before the throne of your despots gloriousheels so glistening in their proud erectness.BLOOM: (ENTHRALLED, BLEATS) I promise never to disobey.BELLO: (LAUGHS LOUDLY) Holy smoke! You little know whats in store for you.Im the Tartar to settle your little lot and break you in! Ill bet Kentuckycocktails all round I shame it out of you, old son. Cheek me, I dare you. Ifyou do tremble in anticipation of heel discipline to be inflicted in gymcostume.(BLOOM CREEPS UNDER THE SOFA AND PEERS OUT THROUGH THE FRINGE.)ZOE: (WIDENING HER SLIP TO SCREEN HER) Shes not here.BLOOM: (CLOSING HER EYES) Shes not here.FLORRY: (HIDING HER WITH HER GOWN) She didnt mean it, Mr Bello.Shell be good, sir.KITTY: Dont be too hard on her, Mr Bello. Sure you wont, maamsir.BELLO: (COAXINGLY) Come, ducky dear, I want a word with you, darling, just toadminister correction. Just a little heart to heart talk, sweety. (BLOOM PUTSOUT HER TIMID HEAD) Theres a good girly now. (BELLO GRABS HER HAIRVIOLENTLY AND DRAGS HER FORWARD) I only want to correct you for your owngood on a soft safe spot. Hows that tender behind? O, ever so gently, pet.Begin to get ready.BLOOM: (FAINTING) Dont tear my ...BELLO: (SAVAGELY) The nosering, the pliers, the bastinado, the hanging hook,the knout Ill make you kiss while the flutes play like the Nubian slave ofold. Youre in for it this time! Ill make you remember me for the balance ofyour natural life. (HIS FOREHEAD VEINS SWOLLEN, HIS FACE CONGESTED) I shallsit on your ottoman saddleback every morning after my thumping goodbreakfast of Mattersons fat hamrashers and a bottle of Guinnesss porter.(HE BELCHES) And suck my thumping good Stock Exchange cigar while Iread the LICENSED VICTUALLERS GAZETTE. Very possibly I shall have youslaughtered and skewered in my stables and enjoy a slice of you with crispcrackling from the baking tin basted and baked like sucking pig with riceand lemon or currant sauce. It will hurt you. (HE TWISTS HER ARM. BLOOMSQUEALS, TURNING TURTLE.)BLOOM: Dont be cruel, nurse! Dont!BELLO: (TWISTING) Another!BLOOM: (SCREAMS) O, its hell itself! Every nerve in my body acheslike mad!BELLO: (SHOUTS) Good, by the rumping jumping general! Thats the best bit ofnews I heard these six weeks. Here, dont keep me waiting, damn you! (HESLAPS HER FACE)BLOOM: (WHIMPERS) Youre after hitting me. Ill tell ...BELLO: Hold him down, girls, till I squat on him.ZOE: Yes. Walk on him! I will.FLORRY: I will. Dont be greedy.KITTY: No, me. Lend him to me.(THE BROTHEL COOK, MRS KEOGH, WRINKLED, GREYBEARDED, IN A GREASYBIB, MENS GREY AND GREEN SOCKS AND BROGUES, FLOURSMEARED, AROLLINGPIN STUCK WITH RAW PASTRY IN HER BARE RED ARM AND HAND,APPEARS AT THE DOOR.)MRS KEOGH: (FEROCIOUSLY) Can I help? (THEY HOLD AND PINION BLOOM.)BELLO: (SQUATS WITH A GRUNT ON BLOOMS UPTURNED FACE, PUFFING CIGARSMOKE,NURSING A FAT LEG) I see Keating Clay is elected vicechairman of theRichmond asylum and by the by Guinnesss preference shares are at sixteenthree quaffers. Curse me for a fool that didnt buy that lot Craig andGardner told me about. Just my infernal luck, curse it. And thatGoddamned outsider THROWAWAY at twenty to one. (HE QUENCHES HIS CIGARANGRILY ON BLOOMS EAR) Wheres that Goddamned cursed ashtray?BLOOM: (GOADED, BUTTOCKSMOTHERED) O! O! Monsters! Cruel one!BELLO: Ask for that every ten minutes. Beg. Pray for it as you never prayedbefore. (HE THRUSTS OUT A FIGGED FIST AND FOUL CIGAR) Here, kiss that. Both.Kiss. (HE THROWS A LEG ASTRIDE AND, PRESSING WITH HORSEMANS KNEES, CALLSIN A HARD VOICE) Gee up! A cockhorse to Banbury cross. Ill ride him forthe Eclipse stakes. (HE BENDS SIDEWAYS AND SQUEEZES HIS MOUNTS TESTICLESROUGHLY, SHOUTING) Ho! Off we pop! Ill nurse you in proper fashion.(HE HORSERIDES COCKHORSE, LEAPING IN THE SADDLE) The lady goes apace a pace and the coachman goes a trot a trot and the gentleman goes agallop a gallop a gallop a gallop.FLORRY: (PULLS AT BELLO) Let me on him now. You had enough. I askedbefore you.ZOE: (PULLING AT FLORRY) Me. Me. Are you not finished with him yet,suckeress?BLOOM: (STIFLING) Cant.BELLO: Well, Im not. Wait. (HE HOLDS IN HIS BREATH) Curse it. Here. Thisbungs about burst. (HE UNCORKS HIMSELF BEHIND: THEN, CONTORTING HISFEATURES, FARTS LOUDLY) Take that! (HE RECORKS HIMSELF) Yes, by Jingo,sixteen three quarters.BLOOM: (A SWEAT BREAKING OUT OVER HIM) Not man. (HE SNIFFS) Woman.BELLO: (STANDS UP) No more blow hot and cold. What you longed for has cometo pass. Henceforth you are unmanned and mine in earnest, a thing underthe yoke. Now for your punishment frock. You will shed your male garments,you understand, Ruby Cohen? and don the shot silk luxuriously rustlingover head and shoulders. And quickly too!BLOOM: (SHRINKS) Silk, mistress said! O crinkly! scrapy! Must I tiptouchit with my nails?BELLO: (POINTS TO HIS WHORES) As they are now so will you be, wigged, singed,perfumesprayed, ricepowdered, with smoothshaven armpits. Tapemeasurements will be taken next your skin. You will be laced with cruelforce into vicelike corsets of soft dove coutille with whalebone busk to thediamondtrimmed pelvis, the absolute outside edge, while your figure,plumper than when at large, will be restrained in nettight frocks, pretty twoounce petticoats and fringes and things stamped, of course, with myhouseflag, creations of lovely lingerie for Alice and nice scent for Alice.Alice will feel the pullpull. Martha and Mary will be a little chilly at firstin such delicate thighcasing but the frilly flimsiness of lace round your bareknees will remind you ...BLOOM: (A CHARMING SOUBRETTE WITH DAUBY CHEEKS, MUSTARD HAIR AND LARGE MALEHANDS AND NOSE, LEERING MOUTH) I tried her things on only twice, a smallprank, in Holles street. When we were hard up I washed them to save thelaundry bill. My own shirts I turned. It was the purest thrift.BELLO: (JEERS) Little jobs that make mother pleased, eh? And showed offcoquettishly in your domino at the mirror behind closedrawn blinds yourunskirted thighs and hegoats udders in various poses of surrender, eh?Ho! ho! I have to laugh! That secondhand black operatop shift and shorttrunkleg naughties all split up the stitches at her last rape that Mrs MiriamDandrade sold you from the Shelbourne hotel, eh?BLOOM: Miriam. Black. Demimondaine.BELLO: (GUFFAWS) Christ Almighty its too tickling, this! You were anicelooking Miriam when you clipped off your backgate hairs and layswooning in the thing across the bed as Mrs Dandrade about to be violatedby lieutenant Smythe-Smythe, Mr Philip Augustus Blockwell M. P., signorLaci Daremo, the robust tenor, blueeyed Bert, the liftboy, Henri Fleury ofGordon Bennett fame, Sheridan, the quadroon Croesus, the varsity wetbobeight from old Trinity, Ponto, her splendid Newfoundland and Bobs, dowagerduchess of Manorhamilton. (HE GUFFAWS AGAIN) Christ, wouldnt it make aSiamese cat laugh?BLOOM: (HER HANDS AND FEATURES WORKING) It was Gerald converted me to be atrue corsetlover when I was female impersonator in the High School play VICEVERSA. It was dear Gerald. He got that kink, fascinated by sisters stays.Now dearest Gerald uses pinky greasepaint and gilds his eyelids. Cult ofthe beautiful.BELLO: (WITH WICKED GLEE) Beautiful! Give us a breather! When you tookyour seat with womanish care, lifting your billowy flounces, on thesmoothworn throne.BLOOM: Science. To compare the various joys we each enjoy. (EARNESTLY)And really its better the position ... because often I used to wet ...BELLO: (STERNLY) No insubordination! The sawdust is there in the cornerfor you. I gave you strict instructions, didnt I? Do it standing, sir!Ill teach you to behave like a jinkleman! If I catch a trace on yourswaddles. Aha! By the ass of the Dorans youll find Im a martinet. Thesins of your past are rising against you. Many. Hundreds.THE SINS OF THE PAST: (IN A MEDLEY OF VOICES) He went through a form ofclandestine marriage with at least one woman in the shadow of the Blackchurch. Unspeakable messages he telephoned mentally to Miss Dunn at anaddress in DOlier street while he presented himself indecently to theinstrument in the callbox. By word and deed he frankly encouraged anocturnal strumpet to deposit fecal and other matter in an unsanitaryouthouse attached to empty premises. In five public conveniences he wrotepencilled messages offering his nuptial partner to all strongmemberedmales. And by the offensively smelling vitriol works did he not pass nightafter night by loving courting couples to see if and what and how much hecould see? Did he not lie in bed, the gross boar, gloating over a nauseousfragment of wellused toilet paper presented to him by a nasty harlot,stimulated by gingerbread and a postal order?BELLO: (WHISTLES LOUDLY) Say! What was the most revolting piece ofobscenity in all your career of crime? Go the whole hog. Puke it out! Becandid for once.(MUTE INHUMAN FACES THRONG FORWARD, LEERING, VANISHING, GIBBERING,BOOLOOHOOM, POLDY KOCK, BOOTLACES A PENNY CASSIDYS HAG, BLINDSTRIPLING, LARRY RHINOCEROS, THE GIRL, THE WOMAN, THE WHORE, THEOTHER, THE ...)BLOOM: Dont ask me! Our mutual faith. Pleasants street. I only thoughtthe half of the ... I swear on my sacred oath ...BELLO: (PEREMPTORILY) Answer. Repugnant wretch! I insist on knowing. Tellme something to amuse me, smut or a bloody good ghoststory or a line ofpoetry, quick, quick, quick! Where? How? What time? With how many? Igive you just three seconds. One! Two! Thr ...BLOOM: (DOCILE, GURGLES) I rererepugnosed in rerererepugnantBELLO: (IMPERIOUSLY) O, get out, you skunk! Hold your tongue! Speak whenyoure spoken to.BLOOM: (BOWS) Master! Mistress! Mantamer!(HE LIFTS HIS ARMS. HIS BANGLE BRACELETS FILL.)BELLO: (SATIRICALLY) By day you will souse and bat our smellingunderclothes also when we ladies are unwell, and swab out our latrineswith dress pinned up and a dishclout tied to your tail. Wont that benice? (HE PLACES A RUBY RING ON HER FINGER) And there now! With this ringI thee own. Say, thank you, mistress.BLOOM: Thank you, mistress.BELLO: You will make the beds, get my tub ready, empty the pisspots in thedifferent rooms, including old Mrs Keoghs the cooks, a sandy one. Ay, andrinse the seven of them well, mind, or lap it up like champagne. Drink mepiping hot. Hop! You will dance attendance or Ill lecture you on yourmisdeeds, Miss Ruby, and spank your bare bot right well, miss, with thehairbrush. Youll be taught the error of your ways. At night your wellcreamedbraceletted hands will wear fortythreebutton gloves newpowdered with talcand having delicately scented fingertips. For such favours knights of oldlaid down their lives. (HE CHUCKLES) My boys will be no end charmed to seeyou so ladylike, the colonel, above all, when they come here the night beforethe wedding to fondle my new attraction in gilded heels. First Ill have a goat you myself. A man I know on the turf named Charles Alberta Marsh (Iwas in bed with him just now and another gentleman out of the Hanaperand Petty Bag office) is on the lookout for a maid of all work at a shortknock. Swell the bust. Smile. Droop shoulders. What offers? (HE POINTS)For that lot. Trained by owner to fetch and carry, basket in mouth. (HEBARES HIS ARM AND PLUNGES IT ELBOWDEEP IN BLOOMS VULVA) Theres finedepth for you! What, boys? That give you a hardon? (HE SHOVES HIS ARM INA BIDDERS FACE) Here wet the deck and wipe it round!A BIDDER: A florin.(DILLONS LACQUEY RINGS HIS HANDBELL.)THE LACQUEY: Barang!A VOICE: One and eightpence too much.CHARLES ALBERTA MARSH: Must be virgin. Good breath. Clean.BELLO: (GIVES A RAP WITH HIS GAVEL) Two bar. Rockbottom figure and cheap atthe price. Fourteen hands high. Touch and examine his points. Handle him.This downy skin, these soft muscles, this tender flesh. If I had only my goldpiercer here! And quite easy to milk. Three newlaid gallons a day. A purestockgetter, due to lay within the hour. His sires milk record was athousand gallons of whole milk in forty weeks. Whoa my jewel! Beg up!Whoa! (HE BRANDS HIS INITIAL C ON BLOOMS CROUP) So! Warranted Cohen!What advance on two bob, gentlemen?A DARKVISAGED MAN: (IN DISGUISED ACCENT) Hoondert punt sterlink.VOICES: (SUBDUED) For the Caliph. Haroun Al Raschid.BELLO: (GAILY) Right. Let them all come. The scanty, daringly short skirt,riding up at the knee to show a peep of white pantalette, is a potent weaponand transparent stockings, emeraldgartered, with the long straight seamtrailing up beyond the knee, appeal to the better instincts of the blaseman about town. Learn the smooth mincing walk on four inch Louis Quinzeheels, the Grecian bend with provoking croup, the thighs fluescent, kneesmodestly kissing. Bring all your powers of fascination to bear on them.Pander to their Gomorrahan vices.BLOOM: (BENDS HIS BLUSHING FACE INTO HIS ARMPIT AND SIMPERS WITH FOREFINGERIN MOUTH) O, I know what youre hinting at now!BELLO: What else are you good for, an impotent thing like you? (HE STOOPSAND, PEERING, POKES WITH HIS FAN RUDELY UNDER THE FAT SUET FOLDS OF BLOOMSHAUNCHES) Up! Up! Manx cat! What have we here? Wheres your curlyteapot gone to or who docked it on you, cockyolly? Sing, birdy, sing. Its aslimp as a boy of sixs doing his pooly behind a cart. Buy a bucket or sellyour pump. (LOUDLY) Can you do a mans job?BLOOM: Eccles street ...BELLO: (SARCASTICALLY) I wouldnt hurt your feelings for the world buttheres a man of brawn in possession there. The tables are turned, my gayyoung fellow! He is something like a fullgrown outdoor man. Well for you, youmuff, if you had that weapon with knobs and lumps and warts all over it.He shot his bolt, I can tell you! Foot to foot, knee to knee, belly to belly,bubs to breast! Hes no eunuch. A shock of red hair he has sticking out ofhim behind like a furzebush! Wait for nine months, my lad! Holy ginger,its kicking and coughing up and down in her guts already! That makesyou wild, dont it? Touches the spot? (HE SPITS IN CONTEMPT) Spittoon!BLOOM: I was indecently treated, I ... Inform the police. Hundred pounds.Unmentionable. I ...BELLO: Would if you could, lame duck. A downpour we want not your drizzle.BLOOM: To drive me mad! Moll! I forgot! Forgive! Moll ... We ... Still ...BELLO: (RUTHLESSLY) No, Leopold Bloom, all is changed by womans will sinceyou slept horizontal in Sleepy Hollow your night of twenty years. Return andsee.(OLD SLEEPY HOLLOW CALLS OVER THE WOLD.)SLEEPY HOLLOW: Rip van Wink! Rip van Winkle!BLOOM: (IN TATTERED MOCASSINS WITH A RUSTY FOWLINGPIECE, TIPTOEING,FINGERTIPPING, HIS HAGGARD BONY BEARDED FACE PEERING THROUGH THE DIAMONDPANES, CRIES OUT) I see her! Its she! The first night at Mat Dillons!But that dress, the green! And her hair is dyed gold and he ...BELLO: (LAUGHS MOCKINGLY) Thats your daughter, you owl, with a Mullingarstudent.(MILLY BLOOM, FAIRHAIRED, GREENVESTED, SLIMSANDALLED, HER BLUE SCARFIN THE SEAWIND SIMPLY SWIRLING, BREAKS FROM THE ARMS OF HER LOVERAND CALLS, HER YOUNG EYES WONDERWIDE.)MILLY: My! Its Papli! But, O Papli, how old youve grown!BELLO: Changed, eh? Our whatnot, our writingtable where we never wrote, auntHegartys armchair, our classic reprints of old masters. A man and hismenfriends are living there in clover. The CUCKOOS REST! Why not? Howmany women had you, eh, following them up dark streets, flatfoot, excitingthem by your smothered grunts, what, you male prostitute? Blamelessdames with parcels of groceries. Turn about. Sauce for the goose, mygander O.BLOOM: They ... I ...BELLO: (CUTTINGLY) Their heelmarks will stamp the Brusselette carpet youbought at Wrens auction. In their horseplay with Moll the romp to findthe buck flea in her breeches they will deface the little statue youcarried home in the rain for art for art sake. They will violate thesecrets of your bottom drawer. Pages will be torn from your handbook ofastronomy to make them pipespills. And they will spit in your ten shillingbrass fender from Hampton Leedoms.BLOOM: Ten and six. The act of low scoundrels. Let me go. I will return.I will prove ...A VOICE: Swear!(BLOOM CLENCHES HIS FISTS AND CRAWLS FORWARD, A BOWIEKNIFE BETWEENHIS TEETH.)BELLO: As a paying guest or a kept man? Too late. You have made yoursecondbest bed and others must lie in it. Your epitaph is written. You aredown and out and dont you forget it, old bean.BLOOM: Justice! All Ireland versus one! Has nobody ...?(HE BITES HIS THUMB)BELLO: Die and be damned to you if you have any sense of decency or graceabout you. I can give you a rare old wine thatll send you skipping tohell and back. Sign a will and leave us any coin you have! If you havenone see you damn well get it, steal it, rob it! Well bury you in ourshrubbery jakes where youll be dead and dirty with old Cuck Cohen, mystepnephew I married, the bloody old gouty procurator and sodomite with acrick in his neck, and my other ten or eleven husbands, whatever thebuggers names were, suffocated in the one cesspool. (HE EXPLODES IN ALOUD PHLEGMY LAUGH) Well manure you, Mr Flower! (HE PIPES SCOFFINGLY)Byby, Poldy! Byby, Papli!BLOOM: (CLASPS HIS HEAD) My willpower! Memory! I have sinned! I havesuff ...(HE WEEPS TEARLESSLY)BELLO: (SNEERS) Crybabby! Crocodile tears!(BLOOM, BROKEN, CLOSELY VEILED FOR THE SACRIFICE, SOBS, HIS FACE TO THEEARTH. THE PASSING BELL IS HEARD. DARKSHAWLED FIGURES OF THECIRCUMCISED, IN SACKCLOTH AND ASHES, STAND BY THE WAILING WALL, M.SHULOMOWITZ, JOSEPH GOLDWATER, MOSES HERZOG, HARRISROSENBERG, M. MOISEL, J. CITRON, MINNIE WATCHMAN, P. MASTIANSKY,THE REVEREND LEOPOLD ABRAMOVITZ, CHAZEN. WITH SWAYING ARMS THEYWAIL IN PNEUMA OVER THE RECREANT BLOOM.)THE CIRCUMCISED: (IN DARK GUTTURAL CHANT AS THEY CAST DEAD SEA FRUIT UPONHIM, NO FLOWERS) SHEMA ISRAEL ADONAI ELOHENU ADONAI ECHAD.VOICES: (SIGHING) So hes gone. Ah yes. Yes, indeed. Bloom? Never heard ofhim. No? Queer kind of chap. Theres the widow. That so? Ah, yes.(FROM THE SUTTEE PYRE THE FLAME OF GUM CAMPHIRE ASCENDS. THE PALLOF INCENSE SMOKE SCREENS AND DISPERSES. OUT OF HER OAKFRAME ANYMPH WITH HAIR UNBOUND, LIGHTLY CLAD IN TEABROWN ARTCOLOURS,DESCENDS FROM HER GROTTO AND PASSING UNDER INTERLACING YEWS STANDSOVER BLOOM.)THE YEWS: (THEIR LEAVES WHISPERING) Sister. Our sister. Ssh!THE NYMPH: (SOFTLY) Mortal! (KINDLY) Nay, dost not weepest!BLOOM: (CRAWLS JELLILY FORWARD UNDER THE BOUGHS, STREAKED BY SUNLIGHT,WITH DIGNITY) This position. I felt it was expected of me. Force of habit.THE NYMPH: Mortal! You found me in evil company, highkickers, costerpicnicmakers, pugilists, popular generals, immoral panto boys infleshtights and the nifty shimmy dancers, La Aurora and Karini, musicalact, the hit of the century. I was hidden in cheap pink paper that smeltof rock oil. I was surrounded by the stale smut of clubmen, stories todisturb callow youth, ads for transparencies, truedup dice and bustpads,proprietary articles and why wear a truss with testimonial from rupturedgentleman. Useful hints to the married.BLOOM: (LIFTS A TURTLE HEAD TOWARDS HER LAP) We have met before.On another star.THE NYMPH: (SADLY) Rubber goods. Neverrip brand as supplied to thearistocracy. Corsets for men. I cure fits or money refunded. Unsolicitedtestimonials for Professor Waldmanns wonderful chest exuber. My bustdeveloped four inches in three weeks, reports Mrs Gus Rublin with photo.BLOOM: You mean PHOTO BITS?THE NYMPH: I do. You bore me away, framed me in oak and tinsel, set meabove your marriage couch. Unseen, one summer eve, you kissed me in fourplaces. And with loving pencil you shaded my eyes, my bosom and my shame.BLOOM: (HUMBLY KISSES HER LONG HAIR) Your classic curves, beautifulimmortal, I was glad to look on you, to praise you, a thing of beauty,almost to pray.THE NYMPH: During dark nights I heard your praise.BLOOM: (QUICKLY) Yes, yes. You mean that I ... Sleep reveals the worst sideof everyone, children perhaps excepted. I know I fell out of bed or ratherwas pushed. Steel wine is said to cure snoring. For the rest there is thatEnglish invention, pamphlet of which I received some days ago, incorrectlyaddressed. It claims to afford a noiseless, inoffensive vent. (HE SIGHS)Twas ever thus. Frailty, thy name is marriage.THE NYMPH: (HER FINGERS IN HER EARS) And words. They are not in mydictionary.BLOOM: You understood them?THE YEWS: Ssh!THE NYMPH: (COVERS HER FACE WITH HER HANDS) What have I not seen in thatchamber? What must my eyes look down on?BLOOM: (APOLOGETICALLY) I know. Soiled personal linen, wrong side up withcare. The quoits are loose. From Gibraltar by long sea long ago.THE NYMPH: (BENDS HER HEAD) Worse, worse!BLOOM: (REFLECTS PRECAUTIOUSLY) That antiquated commode. It wasnt herweight. She scaled just eleven stone nine. She put on nine pounds afterweaning. It was a crack and want of glue. Eh? And that absurd orangekeyedutensil which has only one handle.(THE SOUND OF A WATERFALL IS HEARD IN BRIGHT CASCADE.)THE WATERFALL:    Poulaphouca Poulaphouca    Poulaphouca Poulaphouca.THE YEWS: (MINGLING THEIR BOUGHS) Listen. Whisper. She is right, oursister. We grew by Poulaphouca waterfall. We gave shade on languoroussummer days.JOHN WYSE NOLAN: (IN THE BACKGROUND, IN IRISH NATIONAL FORESTERS UNIFORM,DOFFS HIS PLUMED HAT) Prosper! Give shade on languorous days, trees ofIreland!THE YEWS: (MURMURING) Who came to Poulaphouca with the High Schoolexcursion? Who left his nutquesting classmates to seek our shade?BLOOM: (SCARED) High School of Poula? Mnemo? Not in full possession offaculties. Concussion. Run over by tram.THE ECHO: Sham!BLOOM: (PIGEONBREASTED, BOTTLESHOULDERED, PADDED, IN NONDESCRIPT JUVENILEGREY AND BLACK STRIPED SUIT, TOO SMALL FOR HIM, WHITE TENNIS SHOES, BORDEREDSTOCKINGS WITH TURNOVER TOPS AND A RED SCHOOLCAP WITH BADGE) I was in myteens, a growing boy. A little then sufficed, a jolting car, the minglingodours of the ladies cloakroom and lavatory, the throng penned tight onthe old Royal stairs (for they love crushes, instinct of the herd, and thedark sexsmelling theatre unbridles vice), even a pricelist of their hosiery.And then the heat. There were sunspots that summer. End of school. Andtipsycake. Halcyon days.(HALCYON DAYS, HIGH SCHOOL BOYS IN BLUE AND WHITE FOOTBALLJERSEYS AND SHORTS, MASTER DONALD TURNBULL, MASTER ABRAHAMCHATTERTON, MASTER OWEN GOLDBERG, MASTER JACK MEREDITH, MASTERPERCY APJOHN, STAND IN A CLEARING OF THE TREES AND SHOUT TO MASTERLEOPOLD BLOOM.)THE HALCYON DAYS: Mackerel! Live us again. Hurray! (THEY CHEER)BLOOM: (HOBBLEDEHOY, WARMGLOVED, MAMMAMUFFLERED, STARRED WITH SPENTSNOWBALLS, STRUGGLES TO RISE) Again! I feel sixteen! What a lark! Lets ringall the bells in Montague street. (HE CHEERS FEEBLY) Hurray for the HighSchool!THE ECHO: Fool!THE YEWS: (RUSTLING) She is right, our sister. Whisper. (WHISPERED KISSESARE HEARD IN ALL THE WOOD. FACES OF HAMADRYADS PEEP OUT FROM THE BOLES ANDAMONG THE LEAVES AND BREAK, BLOSSOMING INTO BLOOM.) Who profaned oursilent shade?THE NYMPH: (COYLY, THROUGH PARTING FINGERS) There? In the open air?THE YEWS: (SWEEPING DOWNWARD) Sister, yes. And on our virgin sward.THE WATERFALL:    Poulaphouca Poulaphouca    Phoucaphouca Phoucaphouca.THE NYMPH: (WITH WIDE FINGERS) O, infamy!BLOOM: I was precocious. Youth. The fauna. I sacrificed to the god of theforest. The flowers that bloom in the spring. It was pairing time. Capillaryattraction is a natural phenomenon. Lotty Clarke, flaxenhaired, I saw at hernight toilette through illclosed curtains with poor papas operaglasses: Thewanton ate grass wildly. She rolled downhill at Rialto bridge to tempt mewith her flow of animal spirits. She climbed their crooked tree and I ... Asaint couldnt resist it. The demon possessed me. Besides, who saw?(STAGGERING BOB, A WHITEPOLLED CALF, THRUSTS A RUMINATING HEAD WITHHUMID NOSTRILS THROUGH THE FOLIAGE.)STAGGERING BOB: (LARGE TEARDROPS ROLLING FROM HIS PROMINENT EYES, SNIVELS)Me. Me see.BLOOM: Simply satisfying a need I ... (WITH PATHOS) No girl would when Iwent girling. Too ugly. They wouldnt play ...(HIGH ON BEN HOWTH THROUGH RHODODENDRONS A NANNYGOAT PASSES,PLUMPUDDERED, BUTTYTAILED, DROPPING CURRANTS.)THE NANNYGOAT: (BLEATS) Megeggaggegg! Nannannanny!BLOOM: (HATLESS, FLUSHED, COVERED WITH BURRS OF THISTLEDOWN AND GORSESPINE)Regularly engaged. Circumstances alter cases. (HE GAZES INTENTLYDOWNWARDS ON THE WATER) Thirtytwo head over heels per second. Pressnightmare. Giddy Elijah. Fall from cliff. Sad end of government printersclerk. (THROUGH SILVERSILENT SUMMER AIR THE DUMMY OF BLOOM, ROLLED IN AMUMMY, ROLLS ROTEATINGLY FROM THE LIONS HEAD CLIFF INTO THE PURPLEWAITING WATERS.)THE DUMMYMUMMY: Bbbbblllllblblblblobschbg!(FAR OUT IN THE BAY BETWEEN BAILEY AND KISH LIGHTS THE ERINS KINGSAILS, SENDING A BROADENING PLUME OF COALSMOKE FROM HER FUNNELTOWARDS THE LAND.)COUNCILLOR NANNETII: (ALONE ON DECK, IN DARK ALPACA, YELLOWKITEFACED, HISHAND IN HIS WAISTCOAT OPENING, DECLAIMS) When my country takes her placeamong the nations of the earth, then, and not till then, let my epitaph bewritten. I have ...BLOOM: Done. Prff!THE NYMPH: (LOFTILY) We immortals, as you saw today, have not such a placeand no hair there either. We are stonecold and pure. We eat electriclight. (SHE ARCHES HER BODY IN LASCIVIOUS CRISPATION, PLACING HERFOREFINGER IN HER MOUTH) Spoke to me. Heard from behind. How then couldyou ...?BLOOM: (PAWING THE HEATHER ABJECTLY) O, I have been a perfect pig. Enemastoo I have administered. One third of a pint of quassia to which add atablespoonful of rocksalt. Up the fundament. With Hamilton Longssyringe, the ladies friend.THE NYMPH: In my presence. The powderpuff. (SHE BLUSHES AND MAKES A KNEE)And the rest!BLOOM: (DEJECTED) Yes. PECCAVI! I have paid homage on that living altarwhere the back changes name. (WITH SUDDEN FERVOUR) For why should thedainty scented jewelled hand, the hand that rules ...?(FIGURES WIND SERPENTING IN SLOW WOODLAND PATTERN AROUND THETREESTEMS, COOEEING)THE VOICE OF KITTY: (IN THE THICKET) Show us one of them cushions.THE VOICE OF FLORRY: Here.(A GROUSE WINGS CLUMSILY THROUGH THE UNDERWOOD.)THE VOICE OF LYNCH: (IN THE THICKET) Whew! Piping hot!THE VOICE OF ZOE: (FROM THE THICKET) Came from a hot place.THE VOICE OF VIRAG: (A BIRDCHIEF, BLUESTREAKED AND FEATHERED IN WARPANOPLY WITH HIS ASSEGAI, STRIDING THROUGH A CRACKLING CANEBRAKE OVERBEECHMAST AND ACORNS) Hot! Hot! Ware Sitting Bull!BLOOM: It overpowers me. The warm impress of her warm form. Even to sitwhere a woman has sat, especially with divaricated thighs, as though togrant the last favours, most especially with previously well upliftedwhite sateen coatpans. So womanly, full. It fills me full.THE WATERFALL:    Phillaphulla Poulaphouca    Poulaphouca Poulaphouca.THE YEWS: Ssh! Sister, speak!THE NYMPH: (EYELESS, IN NUNS WHITE HABIT, COIF AND HUGEWINGED WIMPLE,SOFTLY, WITH REMOTE EYES) Tranquilla convent. Sister Agatha. Mount Carmel.The apparitions of Knock and Lourdes. No more desire. (SHE RECLINES HERHEAD, SIGHING) Only the ethereal. Where dreamy creamy gull waves oer thewaters dull.(BLOOM HALF RISES. HIS BACK TROUSERBUTTON SNAPS.)THE BUTTON: Bip!(TWO SLUTS OF THE COOMBE DANCE RAINILY BY, SHAWLED, YELLING FLATLY.)THE SLUTS:    O, Leopold lost the pin of his drawers    He didnt know what to do,    To keep it up,    To keep it up.BLOOM: (COLDLY) You have broken the spell. The last straw. If there wereonly ethereal where would you all be, postulants and novices? Shy butwilling like an ass pissing.THE YEWS: (THEIR SILVERFOIL OF LEAVES PRECIPITATING, THEIR SKINNY ARMSAGING AND SWAYING) Deciduously!THE NYMPH: (her features hardening, gropes in the folds of her habit)Sacrilege! To attempt my virtue! (A LARGE MOIST STAIN APPEARS ON HER ROBE)Sully my innocence! You are not fit to touch the garment of a pure woman.(SHE CLUTCHES AGAIN IN HER ROBE) Wait. Satan, youll sing no morelovesongs. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. (SHE DRAWS A PONIARD AND, CLAD IN THESHEATHMAIL OF AN ELECTED KNIGHT OF NINE, STRIKES AT HIS LOINS) Nekum!BLOOM: (STARTS UP, SEIZES HER HAND) Hoy! Nebrakada! Cat o nine lives!Fair play, madam. No pruningknife. The fox and the grapes, is it? What doyou lack with your barbed wire? Crucifix not thick enough? (HE CLUTCHESHER VEIL) A holy abbot you want or Brophy, the lame gardener, or thespoutless statue of the watercarrier, or good mother Alphonsus,eh Reynard?THE NYMPH: (WITH A CRY FLEES FROM HIM UNVEILED, HER PLASTER CAST CRACKING,A CLOUD OF STENCH ESCAPING FROM THE CRACKS) Poli ...!BLOOM: (CALLS AFTER HER) As if you didnt get it on the double yourselves.No jerks and multiple mucosities all over you. I tried it. Your strengthour weakness. Whats our studfee? What will you pay on the nail? You feemendancers on the Riviera, I read. (THE FLEEING NYMPH RAISES A KEEN) Eh?I have sixteen years of black slave labour behind me. And would a jurygive me five shillings alimony tomorrow, eh? Fool someone else, not me.(HE SNIFFS) Rut. Onions. Stale. Sulphur. Grease.(THE FIGURE OF BELLA COHEN STANDS BEFORE HIM.)BELLA: Youll know me the next time.BLOOM: (COMPOSED, REGARDS HER) Passee. Mutton dressed as lamb. Long in thetooth and superfluous hair. A raw onion the last thing at night wouldbenefit your complexion. And take some double chin drill. Your eyes are asvapid as the glasseyes of your stuffed fox. They have the dimensions ofyour other features, thats all. Im not a triple screw propeller.BELLA: (CONTEMPTUOUSLY) Youre not game, in fact. (HER SOWCUNT BARKS)Fbhracht!BLOOM: (CONTEMPTUOUSLY) Clean your nailless middle finger first, yourbullys cold spunk is dripping from your cockscomb. Take a handful of hayand wipe yourself.BELLA: I know you, canvasser! Dead cod!BLOOM: I saw him, kipkeeper! Pox and gleet vendor!BELLA: (TURNS TO THE PIANO) Which of you was playing the dead march fromSAUL?ZOE: Me. Mind your cornflowers. (SHE DARTS TO THE PIANO AND BANGS CHORDSON IT WITH CROSSED ARMS) The cats ramble through the slag. (SHE GLANCESBACK) EH? WHOS MAKING LOVE TO MY SWEETIES? (she darts back to the table)Whats yours is mine and whats mine is my own.(KITTY, DISCONCERTED, COATS HER TEETH WITH THE SILVER PAPER. BLOOMAPPROACHES ZOE.)BLOOM: (GENTLY) Give me back that potato, will you?ZOE: Forfeits, a fine thing and a superfine thing.BLOOM: (WITH FEELING) It is nothing, but still, a relic of poor mamma.ZOE:    Give a thing and take it back    Godll ask you where is that    Youll say you dont know    Godll send you down below.BLOOM: There is a memory attached to it. I should like to have it.STEPHEN: To have or not to have that is the question.ZOE: Here. (SHE HAULS UP A REEF OF HER SLIP, REVEALING HER BARE THIGH,AND UNROLLS THE POTATO FROM THE TOP OF HER STOCKING) Those that hidesknows where to find.BELLA: (FROWNS) Here. This isnt a musical peepshow. And dont you smashthat piano. Whos paying here?(SHE GOES TO THE PIANOLA. STEPHEN FUMBLES IN HIS POCKET AND, TAKINGOUT A BANKNOTE BY ITS CORNER, HANDS IT TO HER.)STEPHEN: (WITH EXAGGERATED POLITENESS) This silken purse I made out of thesows ear of the public. Madam, excuse me. If you allow me. (HE INDICATESVAGUELY LYNCH AND BLOOM) We are all in the same sweepstake, Kinch andLynch. DANS CE BORDEL OU TENONS NOSTRE ETAT.LYNCH: (CALLS FROM THE HEARTH) Dedalus! Give her your blessing for me.STEPHEN: (HANDS BELLA A COIN) Gold. She has it.BELLA: (LOOKS AT THE MONEY, THEN AT STEPHEN, THEN AT ZOE, FLORRY ANDKITTY) Do you want three girls? Its ten shillings here.STEPHEN: (DELIGHTEDLY) A hundred thousand apologies. (HE FUMBLES AGAIN ANDTAKES OUT AND HANDS HER TWO CROWNS) Permit, brevi manu, my sight issomewhat troubled.(BELLA GOES TO THE TABLE TO COUNT THE MONEY WHILE STEPHEN TALKS TOHIMSELF IN MONOSYLLABLES. ZOE BENDS OVER THE TABLE. KITTY LEANS OVERZOES NECK. LYNCH GETS UP, RIGHTS HIS CAP AND, CLASPING KITTYSWAIST, ADDS HIS HEAD TO THE GROUP.)FLORRY: (STRIVES HEAVILY TO RISE) Ow! My foots asleep. (SHE LIMPS OVER TOTHE TABLE. BLOOM APPROACHES.)BELLA, ZOE, KITTY, LYNCH, BLOOM: (CHATTERING AND SQUABBLING) Thegentleman ... ten shillings ... paying for the three ... allowme a moment ... this gentleman pays separate ... whos touchingit? ... ow! ... mind who youre pinching ... are you staying thenight or a short time?... who did?... youre a liar, excuse me ... thegentleman paid down like a gentleman ... drink ... its long after eleven.STEPHEN: (AT THE PIANOLA, MAKING A GESTURE OF ABHORRENCE) No bottles!What, eleven? A riddle!ZOE: (LIFTING UP HER PETTIGOWN AND FOLDING A HALF SOVEREIGN INTO THE TOPOF HER STOCKING) Hard earned on the flat of my back.LYNCH: (LIFTING KITTY FROM THE TABLE) Come!KITTY: Wait. (SHE CLUTCHES THE TWO CROWNS)FLORRY: And me?LYNCH: Hoopla! (HE LIFTS HER, CARRIES HER AND BUMPS HER DOWN ON THE SOFA.)STEPHEN:    The fox crew, the cocks flew,    The bells in heaven    Were striking eleven.    Tis time for her poor soul    To get out of heaven.BLOOM: (QUIETLY LAYS A HALF SOVEREIGN ON THE TABLE BETWEEN BELLA ANDFLORRY) So. Allow me. (HE TAKES UP THE POUNDNOTE) Three times ten. Weresquare.BELLA: (ADMIRINGLY) Youre such a slyboots, old cocky. I could kiss you.ZOE: (POINTS) Him? Deep as a drawwell. (LYNCH BENDS KITTY BACK OVER THESOFA AND KISSES HER. BLOOM GOES WITH THE POUNDNOTE TO STEPHEN.)BLOOM: This is yours.STEPHEN: How is that? LES DISTRAIT or absentminded beggar. (HE FUMBLESAGAIN IN HIS POCKET AND DRAWS OUT A HANDFUL OF COINS. AN OBJECT FILLS.)That fell.BLOOM: (STOOPING, PICKS UP AND HANDS A BOX OF MATCHES) This.STEPHEN: Lucifer. Thanks.BLOOM: (QUIETLY) You had better hand over that cash to me to take care of.Why pay more?STEPHEN: (HANDS HIM ALL HIS COINS) Be just before you are generous.BLOOM: I will but is it wise? (HE COUNTS) One, seven, eleven, and five.Six. Eleven. I dont answer for what you may have lost.STEPHEN: Why striking eleven? Proparoxyton. Moment before the next Lessingsays. Thirsty fox. (HE LAUGHS LOUDLY) Burying his grandmother. Probably hekilled her.BLOOM: That is one pound six and eleven. One pound seven, say.STEPHEN: Doesnt matter a rambling damn. BLOOM: No, but ...STEPHEN: (COMES TO THE TABLE) Cigarette, please. (LYNCH TOSSES A CIGARETTEFROM THE SOFA TO THE TABLE) And so Georgina Johnson is dead and married.(A CIGARETTE APPEARS ON THE TABLE. STEPHEN LOOKS AT IT) Wonder. Parlourmagic. Married. Hm. (HE STRIKES A MATCH AND PROCEEDS TO LIGHT THECIGARETTE WITH ENIGMATIC MELANCHOLY)LYNCH: (WATCHING HIM) You would have a better chance of lighting it if youheld the match nearer.STEPHEN: (BRINGS THE MATCH NEAR HIS EYE) Lynx eye. Must get glasses. Brokethem yesterday. Sixteen years ago. Distance. The eye sees all flat.(HE DRAWS THE MATCH AWAY. IT GOES OUT.) Brain thinks. Near: far.Ineluctable modality of the visible. (HE FROWNS MYSTERIOUSLY) Hm. Sphinx.The beast that has twobacks at midnight. Married.ZOE: It was a commercial traveller married her and took her away with him.FLORRY: (NODS) Mr Lambe from London.STEPHEN: Lamb of London, who takest away the sins of our world.LYNCH: (EMBRACING KITTY ON THE SOFA, CHANTS DEEPLY) DONA NOBIS PACEM.(THE CIGARETTE SLIPS FROM STEPHEN S FINGERS. BLOOM PICKS IT UP ANDTHROWS IT IN THE GRATE.)BLOOM: Dont smoke. You ought to eat. Cursed dog I met. (TO ZOE) You havenothing?ZOE: Is he hungry?STEPHEN: (EXTENDS HIS HAND TO HER SMILING AND CHANTS TO THE AIR OF THEBLOODOATH IN THE DUSK OF THE GODS)    Hangende Hunger,    Fragende Frau,    Macht uns alle kaputt.ZOE: (TRAGICALLY) Hamlet, I am thy fathers gimlet! (SHE TAKES HIS HAND)Blue eyes beauty Ill read your hand. (SHE POINTS TO HIS FOREHEAD) No wit,no wrinkles. (SHE COUNTS) Two, three, Mars, thats courage. (STEPHENSHAKES HIS HEAD) No kid.LYNCH: Sheet lightning courage. The youth who could not shiver and shake.(TO ZOE) Who taught you palmistry?ZOE: (TURNS) Ask my ballocks that I havent got. (TO STEPHEN) I see it inyour face. The eye, like that. (SHE FROWNS WITH LOWERED HEAD)LYNCH: (LAUGHING, SLAPS KITTY BEHIND TWICE) Like that. Pandybat.(TWICE LOUDLY A PANDYBAT CRACKS, THE COFFIN OF THE PIANOLA FLIES OPEN,THE BALD LITTLE ROUND JACK-IN-THE-BOX HEAD OF FATHER DOLAN SPRINGS UP.)FATHER DOLAN: Any boy want flogging? Broke his glasses? Lazy idle littleschemer. See it in your eye.(MILD, BENIGN, RECTORIAL, REPROVING, THE HEAD OF DON JOHN CONMEERISES FROM THE PIANOLA COFFIN.)DON JOHN CONMEE: Now, Father Dolan! Now. Im sure that Stephen is a verygood little boy!ZOE: (EXAMINING STEPHENS PALM) Womans hand.STEPHEN: (MURMURS) Continue. Lie. Hold me. Caress. I never could read Hishandwriting except His criminal thumbprint on the haddock.ZOE: What day were you born?STEPHEN: Thursday. Today.ZOE: Thursdays child has far to go. (SHE TRACES LINES ON HIS HAND) Lineof fate. Influential friends.FLORRY: (POINTING) Imagination.ZOE: Mount of the moon. Youll meet with a ... (SHE PEERS AT HIS HANDSABRUPTLY) I wont tell you whats not good for you. Or do you wantto know?BLOOM: (DETACHES HER FINGERS AND OFFERS HIS PALM) More harm than good.Here. Read mine.BELLA: Show. (SHE TURNS UP BLOOMS HAND) I thought so. Knobby knucklesfor the women.ZOE: (PEERING AT BLOOMS PALM) Gridiron. Travels beyond the sea and marrymoney.BLOOM: Wrong.ZOE: (QUICKLY) O, I see. Short little finger. Henpecked husband.That wrong?(BLACK LIZ, A HUGE ROOSTER HATCHING IN A CHALKED CIRCLE, RISES,STRETCHES HER WINGS AND CLUCKS.)BLACK LIZ: Gara. Klook. Klook. Klook.(SHE SIDLES FROM HER NEWLAID EGG AND WADDLES OFF)BLOOM: (POINTS TO HIS HAND) That weal there is an accident. Fell and cutit twentytwo years ago. I was sixteen.ZOE: I see, says the blind man. Tell us news.STEPHEN: See? Moves to one great goal. I am twentytwo. Sixteen years agohe was twentytwo too. Sixteen years ago I twentytwo tumbled. Twentytwoyears ago he sixteen fell off his hobbyhorse. (HE WINCES) Hurt my handsomewhere. Must see a dentist. Money?(ZOE WHISPERS TO FLORRY. THEY GIGGLE. BLOOM RELEASES HIS HAND ANDWRITES IDLY ON THE TABLE IN BACKHAND, PENCILLING SLOW CURVES.)FLORRY: What?(A HACKNEYCAR, NUMBER THREE HUNDRED AND TWENTYFOUR, WITH AGALLANTBUTTOCKED MARE, DRIVEN BY JAMES BARTON, HARMONY AVENUE,DONNYBROOK, TROTS PAST. BLAZES BOYLAN AND LENEHAN SPRAWLSWAYING ON THE SIDESEATS. THE ORMOND BOOTS CROUCHES BEHIND ONTHE AXLE. SADLY OVER THE CROSSBLIND LYDIA DOUCE AND MINA KENNEDYGAZE.)THE BOOTS: (JOGGING, MOCKS THEM WITH THUMB AND WRIGGLING WORMFINGERS)Haw haw have you the horn?(BRONZE BY GOLD THEY WHISPER.)ZOE: (TO FLORRY) Whisper.(THEY WHISPER AGAIN)(OVER THE WELL OF THE CAR BLAZES BOYLAN LEANS, HIS BOATER STRAW SETSIDEWAYS, A RED FLOWER IN HIS MOUTH. LENEHAN IN YACHTSMANS CAPAND WHITE SHOES OFFICIOUSLY DETACHES A LONG HAIR FROM BLAZESBOYLANS COAT SHOULDER.)LENEHAN: Ho! What do I here behold? Were you brushing the cobwebs offa few quims?BOYLAN: (SEATED, SMILES) Plucking a turkey.LENEHAN: A good nights work.BOYLAN: (HOLDING UP FOUR THICK BLUNTUNGULATED FINGERS, WINKS) Blazes Kate!Up to sample or your money back. (HE HOLDS OUT A FOREFINGER) Smell that.LENEHAN: (SMELLS GLEEFULLY) Ah! Lobster and mayonnaise. Ah!ZOE AND FLORRY: (LAUGH TOGETHER) Ha ha ha ha.BOYLAN: (JUMPS SURELY FROM THE CAR AND CALLS LOUDLY FOR ALL TO HEAR)Hello, Bloom! Mrs Bloom dressed yet?BLOOM: (IN FLUNKEYS PRUNE PLUSH COAT AND KNEEBREECHES, BUFF STOCKINGSAND POWDERED WIG) Im afraid not, sir. The last articles ...BOYLAN: (TOSSES HIM SIXPENCE) Here, to buy yourself a gin and splash.(HE HANGS HIS HAT SMARTLY ON A PEG OF BLOOM S ANTLERED HEAD) Show me in.I have a little private business with your wife, you understand?BLOOM: Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Madam Tweedy is in her bath, sir.MARION: He ought to feel himself highly honoured. (SHE PLOPS SPLASHING OUTOF THE WATER) Raoul darling, come and dry me. Im in my pelt. Only my newhat and a carriage sponge.BOYLAN: (A MERRY TWINKLE IN HIS EYE) Topping!BELLA: What? What is it?(ZOE WHISPERS TO HER.)MARION: Let him look, the pishogue! Pimp! And scourge himself! Ill writeto a powerful prostitute or Bartholomona, the bearded woman, to raiseweals out on him an inch thick and make him bring me back a signed andstamped receipt.BOYLAN: (clasps himself) Here, I cant hold this little lot much longer.(he strides off on stiff cavalry legs)BELLA: (LAUGHING) Ho ho ho ho.BOYLAN: (TO BLOOM, OVER HIS SHOULDER) You can apply your eye to thekeyhole and play with yourself while I just go through her a few times.BLOOM: Thank you, sir. I will, sir. May I bring two men chums to witnessthe deed and take a snapshot? (HE HOLDS OUT AN OINTMENT JAR) Vaseline,sir? Orangeflower ...? Lukewarm water ...?KITTY: (FROM THE SOFA) Tell us, Florry. Tell us. What.(FLORRY WHISPERS TO HER. WHISPERING LOVEWORDS MURMUR, LIPLAPPINGLOUDLY, POPPYSMIC PLOPSLOP.)MINA KENNEDY: (HER EYES UPTURNED) O, it must be like the scent ofgeraniums and lovely peaches! O, he simply idolises every bit of her!Stuck together! Covered with kisses!LYDIA DOUCE: (HER MOUTH OPENING) Yumyum. O, hes carrying her round theroom doing it! Ride a cockhorse. You could hear them in Paris and NewYork. Like mouthfuls of strawberries and cream.KITTY: (LAUGHING) Hee hee hee.BOYLANS VOICE: (SWEETLY, HOARSELY, IN THE PIT OF HIS STOMACH) Ah!Gooblazqruk brukarchkrasht!MARIONS VOICE: (HOARSELY, SWEETLY, RISING TO HER THROAT) O!Weeshwashtkissinapooisthnapoohuck?BLOOM: (HIS EYES WILDLY DILATED, CLASPS HIMSELF) Show! Hide! Show!Plough her! More! Shoot!BELLA, ZOE, FLORRY, KITTY: Ho ho! Ha ha! Hee hee!LYNCH: (POINTS) The mirror up to nature. (HE LAUGHS) Hu hu hu hu hu!(STEPHEN AND BLOOM GAZE IN THE MIRROR. THE FACE OF WILLIAMSHAKESPEARE, BEARDLESS, APPEARS THERE, RIGID IN FACIAL PARALYSIS,CROWNED BY THE REFLECTION OF THE REINDEER ANTLERED HATRACK IN THE HALL.)SHAKESPEARE: (IN DIGNIFIED VENTRILOQUY) Tis the loud laugh bespeaks thevacant mind. (TO BLOOM) Thou thoughtest as how thou wastest invisible.Gaze. (HE CROWS WITH A BLACK CAPON S LAUGH) Iagogo! How my Oldfellowchokit his Thursdaymornun. Iagogogo!BLOOM: (SMILES YELLOWLY AT THE THREE WHORES) When will I hear the joke?ZOE: Before youre twice married and once a widower.BLOOM: Lapses are condoned. Even the great Napoleon when measurements weretaken next the skin after his death ...(MRS DIGNAM, WIDOW WOMAN, HER SNUBNOSE AND CHEEKS FLUSHEDWITH DEATHTALK, TEARS AND TUNNEYS TAWNY SHERRY, HURRIES BY IN HERWEEDS, HER BONNET AWRY, ROUGING AND POWDERING HER CHEEKS, LIPSAND NOSE, A PEN CHIVVYING HER BROOD OF CYGNETS. BENEATH HER SKIRTAPPEAR HER LATE HUSBANDS EVERYDAY TROUSERS AND TURNEDUP BOOTS,LARGE EIGHTS. SHE HOLDS A SCOTTISH WIDOWS INSURANCE POLICY AND ALARGE MARQUEE UMBRELLA UNDER WHICH HER BROOD RUN WITH HER, PATSYHOPPING ON ONE SHOD FOOT, HIS COLLAR LOOSE, A HANK OF PORKSTEAKSDANGLING, FREDDY WHIMPERING, SUSY WITH A CRYING CODS MOUTH,ALICE STRUGGLING WITH THE BABY. SHE CUFFS THEM ON, HER STREAMERSFLAUNTING ALOFT.)FREDDY: Ah, ma, youre dragging me along!SUSY: Mamma, the beeftea is fizzing over!SHAKESPEARE: (WITH PARALYTIC RAGE) Weda seca whokilla farst.(THE FACE OF MARTIN CUNNINGHAM, BEARDED, REFEATURESSHAKESPEARES BEARDLESS FACE. THE MARQUEE UMBRELLA SWAYSDRUNKENLY, THE CHILDREN RUN ASIDE. UNDER THE UMBRELLA APPEARS MRSCUNNINGHAM IN MERRY WIDOW HAT AND KIMONO GOWN. SHE GLIDESSIDLING AND BOWING, TWIRLING JAPANESILY.)MRS CUNNINGHAM: (SINGS)    And they call me the jewel of Asia!MARTIN CUNNINGHAM: (GAZES ON HER, IMPASSIVE) Immense! Most bloody awfuldemirep!STEPHEN: ET EXALTABUNTUR CORNUA IUSTI. Queens lay with prize bulls.Remember Pasiphae for whose lust my grandoldgrossfather made the firstconfessionbox. Forget not Madam Grissel Steevens nor the suine scions ofthe house of Lambert. And Noah was drunk with wine. And his ark wasopen.BELLA: None of that here. Come to the wrong shop.LYNCH: Let him alone. Hes back from Paris.ZOE: (RUNS TO STEPHEN AND LINKS HIM) O go on! Give us some parleyvoo.(STEPHEN CLAPS HAT ON HEAD AND LEAPS OVER TO THE FIREPLACE WHERE HESTANDS WITH SHRUGGED SHOULDERS, FINNY HANDS OUTSPREAD, A PAINTEDSMILE ON HIS FACE.)LYNCH: (POMMELLING ON THE SOFA) Rmm Rmm Rmm Rrrrrrmmmm.STEPHEN: (GABBLES WITH MARIONETTE JERKS) Thousand places of entertainmentto expense your evenings with lovely ladies saling gloves and other thingsperhaps hers heart beerchops perfect fashionable house very eccentricwhere lots cocottes beautiful dressed much about princesses like aredancing cancan and walking there parisian clowneries extra foolish forbachelors foreigns the same if talking a poor english how much smart theyare on things love and sensations voluptuous. Misters very selects for ispleasure must to visit heaven and hell show with mortuary candles and theytears silver which occur every night. Perfectly shocking terrific ofreligions things mockery seen in universal world. All chic womans whicharrive full of modesty then disrobe and squeal loud to see vampire mandebauch nun very fresh young with dessous troublants. (HE CLACKS HISTONGUE LOUDLY) Ho, la la! Ce pif quil a!LYNCH: Vive le vampire!THE WHORES: Bravo! Parleyvoo!STEPHEN: (GRIMACING WITH HEAD BACK, LAUGHS LOUDLY, CLAPPING HIMSELF) Greatsuccess of laughing. Angels much prostitutes like and holy apostles bigdamn ruffians. DEMIMONDAINES nicely handsome sparkling of diamonds veryamiable costumed. Or do you are fond better what belongs they modernspleasure turpitude of old mans? (HE POINTS ABOUT HIM WITH GROTESQUEGESTURES WHICH LYNCH AND THE WHORES REPLY TO) Caoutchouc statue womanreversible or lifesize tompeeptom of virgins nudities very lesbic the kissfive ten times. Enter, gentleman, to see in mirror every positionstrapezes all that machine there besides also if desire act awfully bestialbutchers boy pollutes in warm veal liver or omlet on the belly PIECE DESHAKESPEARE.BELLA: (CLAPPING HER BELLY SINKS BACK ON THE SOFA, WITH A SHOUT OFLAUGHTER) An omelette on the ... Ho! ho! ho! ho! ... omelette on the ...STEPHEN: (MINCINGLY) I love you, sir darling. Speak you englishman tonguefor DOUBLE ENTENTE CORDIALE. O yes, MON LOUP. How much cost? Waterloo.Watercloset. (HE CEASES SUDDENLY AND HOLDS UP A FOREFINGER)BELLA: (LAUGHING) Omelette ...THE WHORES: (LAUGHING) Encore! Encore!STEPHEN: Mark me. I dreamt of a watermelon.ZOE: Go abroad and love a foreign lady.LYNCH: Across the world for a wife.FLORRY: Dreams goes by contraries.STEPHEN: (EXTENDS HIS ARMS) It was here. Street of harlots. In Serpentineavenue Beelzebub showed me her, a fubsy widow. Wheres the red carpetspread?BLOOM: (APPROACHING STEPHEN) Look ...STEPHEN: No, I flew. My foes beneath me. And ever shall be. World withoutend. (HE CRIES) Pater! Free!BLOOM: I say, look ...STEPHEN: Break my spirit, will he? O MERDE ALORS! (HE CRIES, HIS VULTURETALONS SHARPENED) Hola!  Hillyho!(SIMON DEDALUS VOICE HILLOES IN ANSWER, SOMEWHAT SLEEPY BUT READY.)SIMON: Thats all right. (HE SWOOPS UNCERTAINLY THROUGH THE AIR, WHEELING,UTTERING CRIES OF HEARTENING, ON STRONG PONDEROUS BUZZARD WINGS) Ho, boy!Are you going to win? Hoop! Pschatt! Stable with those halfcastes.Wouldnt let them within the bawl of an ass. Head up! Keep our flagflying! An eagle gules volant in a field argent displayed. Ulster kingat arms! Haihoop! (HE MAKES THE BEAGLES CALL, GIVING TONGUE) Bulbul!Burblblburblbl! Hai, boy!(THE FRONDS AND SPACES OF THE WALLPAPER FILE RAPIDLY ACROSS COUNTRY.A STOUT FOX, DRAWN FROM COVERT, BRUSH POINTED, HAVING BURIED HISGRANDMOTHER, RUNS SWIFT FOR THE OPEN, BRIGHTEYED, SEEKING BADGEREARTH, UNDER THE LEAVES. THE PACK OF STAGHOUNDS FOLLOWS, NOSE TO THEGROUND, SNIFFING THEIR QUARRY, BEAGLEBAYING, BURBLBRBLING TO BEBLOODED. WARD UNION HUNTSMEN AND HUNTSWOMEN LIVE WITH THEM,HOT FOR A KILL. FROM SIX MILE POINT, FLATHOUSE, NINE MILE STONEFOLLOW THE FOOTPEOPLE WITH KNOTTY STICKS, HAYFORKS, SALMONGAFFS,LASSOS, FLOCKMASTERS WITH STOCKWHIPS, BEARBAITERS WITH TOMTOMS,TOREADORS WITH BULLSWORDS, GREYNEGROES WAVING TORCHES. THE CROWDBAWLS OF DICERS, CROWN AND ANCHOR PLAYERS, THIMBLERIGGERS,BROADSMEN. CROWS AND TOUTS, HOARSE BOOKIES IN HIGH WIZARD HATSCLAMOUR DEAFENINGLY.)THE CROWD:    Card of the races. Racing card!    Ten to one the field!    Tommy on the clay here! Tommy on the clay!    Ten to one bar one! Ten to one bar one!    Try your luck on Spinning Jenny!    Ten to one bar one!    Sell the monkey, boys! Sell the monkey!    Ill give ten to one!    Ten to one bar one!(A DARK HORSE, RIDERLESS, BOLTS LIKE A PHANTOM PAST THE WINNINGPOST,HIS MANE MOONFOAMING, HIS EYEBALLS STARS. THE FIELD FOLLOWS, ABUNCH OF BUCKING MOUNTS. SKELETON HORSES, SCEPTRE, MAXIMUM THESECOND, ZINFANDEL, THE DUKE OF WESTMINSTERS SHOTOVER, REPULSE,THE DUKE OF BEAUFORTS CEYLON, PRIX DE PARIS. DWARFS RIDE THEM,RUSTYARMOURED, LEAPING, LEAPING IN THEIR, IN THEIR SADDLES. LAST IN ADRIZZLE OF RAIN ON A BROKENWINDED ISABELLE NAG, COCK OF THE NORTH,THE FAVOURITE, HONEY CAP, GREEN JACKET, ORANGE SLEEVES, GARRETT DEASYUP, GRIPPING THE REINS, A HOCKEYSTICK AT THE READY. HIS NAG ONSPAVINED WHITEGAITERED FEET JOGS ALONG THE ROCKY ROAD.)THE ORANGE LODGES: (JEERING) Get down and push, mister. Last lap!Youll be home the night!GARRETT DEASY: (BOLT UPRIGHT, HIS NAILSCRAPED FACE PLASTERED WITHPOSTAGESTAMPS, BRANDISHES HIS HOCKEYSTICK, HIS BLUE EYES FLASHING IN THEPRISM OF THE CHANDELIER AS HIS MOUNT LOPES BY AT SCHOOLING GALLOP)PER VIAS RECTAS!(A YOKE OF BUCKETS LEOPARDS ALL OVER HIM AND HIS REARING NAG ATORRENT OF MUTTON BROTH WITH DANCING COINS OF CARROTS, BARLEY,ONIONS, TURNIPS, POTATOES.)THE GREEN LODGES: Soft day, sir John! Soft day, your honour!(PRIVATE CARR, PRIVATE COMPTON AND CISSY CAFFREY PASS BENEATH THE WINDOWS,SINGING IN DISCORD.)STEPHEN: Hark! Our friend noise in the street.ZOE: (HOLDS UP HER HAND) Stop!PRIVATE CARR, PRIVATE COMPTON AND CISSY CAFFREY:    Yet Ive a sort a    Yorkshire relish for ...ZOE: Thats me. (SHE CLAPS HER HANDS) Dance! Dance! (SHE RUNS TO THEPIANOLA) Who has twopence?BLOOM: Wholl ...?LYNCH: (HANDING HER COINS) Here.STEPHEN: (CRACKING HIS FINGERS IMPATIENTLY) Quick! Quick! Wheres myaugurs rod? (HE RUNS TO THE PIANO AND TAKES HIS ASHPLANT, BEATING HISFOOT IN TRIPUDIUM)ZOE: (TURNS THE DRUMHANDLE) There.(SHE DROPS TWO PENNIES IN THE SLOT. GOLD, PINK AND VIOLET LIGHTS STARTFORTH. THE DRUM TURNS PURRING IN LOW HESITATION WALTZ. PROFESSORGOODWIN, IN A BOWKNOTTED PERIWIG, IN COURT DRESS, WEARING ASTAINED INVERNESS CAPE, BENT IN TWO FROM INCREDIBLE AGE, TOTTERSACROSS THE ROOM, HIS HANDS FLUTTERING. HE SITS TINILY ON THE PIANOSTOOLAND LIFTS AND BEATS HANDLESS STICKS OF ARMS ON THE KEYBOARD, NODDINGWITH DAMSELS GRACE, HIS BOWKNOT BOBBING)ZOE: (TWIRLS ROUND HERSELF, HEELTAPPING) Dance. Anybody here for there?Wholl dance? Clear the table.(THE PIANOLA WITH CHANGING LIGHTS PLAYS IN WALTZ TIME THE PRELUDEOF My Girls a Yorkshire Girl. STEPHEN THROWS HIS ASHPLANT ON THETABLE AND SEIZES ZOE ROUND THE WAIST. FLORRY AND BELLA PUSH THETABLE TOWARDS THE FIREPLACE. STEPHEN, ARMING ZOE WITH EXAGGERATEDGRACE, BEGINS TO WALTZ HER ROUND THE ROOM. BLOOM STANDS ASIDE. HERSLEEVE FILLING FROM GRACING ARMS REVEALS A WHITE FLESHFLOWER OFVACCINATION. BETWEEN THE CURTAINS PROFESSOR MAGINNI INSERTS A LEGON THE TOEPOINT OF WHICH SPINS A SILK HAT. WITH A DEFT KICK HE SENDS ITSPINNING TO HIS CROWN AND JAUNTYHATTED SKATES IN. HE WEARS A SLATEFROCKCOAT WITH CLARET SILK LAPELS, A GORGET OF CREAM TULLE, A GREENLOWCUT WAISTCOAT, STOCK COLLAR WITH WHITE KERCHIEF, TIGHT LAVENDERTROUSERS, PATENT PUMPS AND CANARY GLOVES. IN HIS BUTTONHOLE IS ANIMMENSE DAHLIA. HE TWIRLS IN REVERSED DIRECTIONS A CLOUDED CANE,THEN WEDGES IT TIGHT IN HIS OXTER. HE PLACES A HAND LIGHTLY ON HISBREASTBONE, BOWS, AND FONDLES HIS FLOWER AND BUTTONS.)MAGINNI: The poetry of motion, art of calisthenics. No connection withMadam Legget Byrnes or Levenstons. Fancy dress balls arranged.Deportment. The Katty Lanner step. So. Watch me! My terpsichoreanabilities. (HE MINUETS FORWARD THREE PACES ON TRIPPING BEES FEET) TOUT LEMONDE EN AVANT! REVERENCE! TOUT LE MONDE EN PLACE!(THE PRELUDE CEASES. PROFESSOR GOODWIN, BEATING VAGUE ARMSSHRIVELS, SINKS, HIS LIVE CAPE FILLING ABOUT THE STOOL. THE AIR IN FIRMERWALTZ TIME SOUNDS. STEPHEN AND ZOE CIRCLE FREELY. THE LIGHTSCHANGE, GLOW, FIDE GOLD ROSY VIOLET.)THE PIANOLA:    Two young fellows were talking about their girls, girls, girls,    Sweethearts theyd left behind ...(FROM A CORNER THE MORNING HOURS RUN OUT, GOLDHAIRED,SLIMSANDALLED, IN GIRLISH BLUE, WASPWAISTED, WITH INNOCENT HANDS.NIMBLY THEY DANCE, TWIRLING THEIR SKIPPING ROPES. THE HOURS OFNOON FOLLOW IN AMBER GOLD. LAUGHING, LINKED, HIGH HAIRCOMBSFLASHING, THEY CATCH THE SUN IN MOCKING MIRRORS, LIFTING THEIR ARMS.)MAGINNI: (CLIPCLAPS GLOVESILENT HANDS) CARRE! AVANT DEUX! Breathe evenly!BALANCE!(THE MORNING AND NOON HOURS WALTZ IN THEIR PLACES, TURNING,ADVANCING TO EACH OTHER, SHAPING THEIR CURVES, BOWING VISAVIS.CAVALIERS BEHIND THEM ARCH AND SUSPEND THEIR ARMS, WITH HANDSDESCENDING TO, TOUCHING, RISING FROM THEIR SHOULDERS.)HOURS: You may touch my.CAVALIERS: May I touch your?HOURS: O, but lightly!CAVALIERS: O, so lightly!THE PIANOLA:    My little shy little lass has a waist.(ZOE AND STEPHEN TURN BOLDLY WITH LOOSER SWING. THE TWILIGHT HOURSADVANCE FROM LONG LANDSHADOWS, DISPERSED, LAGGING, LANGUIDEYED,THEIR CHEEKS DELICATE WITH CIPRIA AND FALSE FAINT BLOOM. THEY ARE INGREY GAUZE WITH DARK BAT SLEEVES THAT FLUTTER IN THE LAND BREEZE.)MAGINNI: AVANT HUIT! TRAVERSE! SALUT! COURS DE MAINS! CROISE!(THE NIGHT HOURS, ONE BY ONE, STEAL TO THE LAST PLACE. MORNING, NOONAND TWILIGHT HOURS RETREAT BEFORE THEM. THEY ARE MASKED, WITHDAGGERED HAIR AND BRACELETS OF DULL BELLS. WEARY THEY CURCHYCURCHYUNDER VEILS.)THE BRACELETS: Heigho! Heigho!ZOE: (TWIRLING, HER HAND TO HER BROW) O!MAGINNI: LES TIROIRS! CHAINE DE DAMES! LA CORBEILLE! DOS A DOS!(ARABESQUING WEARILY THEY WEAVE A PATTERN ON THE FLOOR, WEAVING,UNWEAVING, CURTSEYING, TWIRLING, SIMPLY SWIRLING.)ZOE: Im giddy!(SHE FREES HERSELF, DROOPS ON A CHAIR. STEPHEN SEIZES FLORRY ANDTURNS WITH HER.)MAGINNI: BOULANGERE! LES RONDS! LES PONTS! CHEVAUX DE BOIS! ESCARGOTS!(TWINING, RECEDING, WITH INTERCHANGING HANDS THE NIGHT HOURS LINKEACH EACH WITH ARCHING ARMS IN A MOSAIC OF MOVEMENTS. STEPHENAND FLORRY TURN CUMBROUSLY.)MAGINNI: DANSEZ AVEC VOS DAMES! CHANGEZ DE DAMES! DONNEZ LE PETIT BOUQUETA VOTRE DAME! REMERCIEZ!THE PIANOLA:    Best, best of all,    Baraabum!KITTY: (JUMPS UP) O, they played that on the hobbyhorses at the Mirusbazaar!(SHE RUNS TO STEPHEN. HE LEAVES FLORRY BRUSQUELY AND SEIZESKITTY. A SCREAMING BITTERNS HARSH HIGH WHISTLE SHRIEKS.GROANGROUSEGURGLING TOFTS CUMBERSOME WHIRLIGIG TURNS SLOWLY THEROOM RIGHT ROUNDABOUT THE ROOM.)THE PIANOLA:    My girls a Yorkshire girl.ZOE:    Yorkshire through and through.Come on all!(SHE SEIZES FLORRY AND WALTZES HER.)STEPHEN: PAS SEUL!(HE WHEELS KITTY INTO LYNCHS ARMS, SNATCHES UP HIS ASHPLANT FROMTHE TABLE AND TAKES THE FLOOR. ALL WHEEL WHIRL WALTZ TWIRL BLOOMBELLAKITTYLYNCH FLORRYZOE JUJUBY WOMEN. STEPHEN WITH HAT ASHPLANTFROGSPLITS IN MIDDLE HIGHKICKS WITH SKYKICKING MOUTH SHUT HANDCLASP PART UNDER THIGH. WITH CLANG TINKLE BOOMHAMMER TALLYHOHORNBLOWER BLUE GREEN YELLOW FLASHES TOFTS CUMBERSOME TURNS WITHHOBBYHORSE RIDERS FROM GILDED SNAKES DANGLED, BOWELS FANDANGOLEAPING SPURN SOIL FOOT AND FALL AGAIN.)THE PIANOLA:    Though shes a factory lass    And wears no fancy clothes.(CLOSECLUTCHED SWIFT SWIFTER WITH GLAREBLAREFLARE SCUDDING THEYSCOOTLOOTSHOOT LUMBERING BY. BARAABUM!)TUTTI: Encore! Bis! Bravo! Encore!SIMON: Think of your mothers people!STEPHEN: Dance of death.(BANG FRESH BARANG BANG OF LACQUEYS BELL, HORSE, NAG, STEER,PIGLINGS, CONMEE ON CHRISTASS, LAME CRUTCH AND LEG SAILOR INCOCKBOAT ARMFOLDED ROPEPULLING HITCHING STAMP HORNPIPE THROUGHAND THROUGH. BARAABUM! ON NAGS HOGS BELLHORSES GADARENE SWINECORNY IN COFFIN STEEL SHARK STONE ONEHANDLED NELSON TWO TRICKIESFRAUENZIMMER PLUMSTAINED FROM PRAM FILLING BAWLING GUM HES ACHAMPION. FUSEBLUE PEER FROM BARREL REV. EVENSONG LOVE ONHACKNEY JAUNT BLAZES BLIND CODDOUBLED BICYCLERS DILLY WITHSNOWCAKE NO FANCY CLOTHES. THEN IN LAST SWITCHBACK LUMBERING UPAND DOWN BUMP MASHTUB SORT OF VICEROY AND REINE RELISH FORTUBLUMBER BUMPSHIRE ROSE. BARAABUM!)(THE COUPLES FALL ASIDE. STEPHEN WHIRLS GIDDILY. ROOM WHIRLS BACK.EYES CLOSED HE TOTTERS. RED RAILS FLY SPACEWARDS. STARS ALL AROUNDSUNS TURN ROUNDABOUT. BRIGHT MIDGES DANCE ON WALLS. HE STOPS DEAD.)STEPHEN: Ho!(STEPHENS MOTHER, EMACIATED, RISES STARK THROUGH THE FLOOR, IN LEPERGREY WITH A WREATH OF FADED ORANGEBLOSSOMS AND A TORN BRIDAL VEIL,HER FACE WORN AND NOSELESS, GREEN WITH GRAVEMOULD. HER HAIR ISSCANT AND LANK. SHE FIXES HER BLUECIRCLED HOLLOW EYESOCKETS ONSTEPHEN AND OPENS HER TOOTHLESS MOUTH UTTERING A SILENT WORD. ACHOIR OF VIRGINS AND CONFESSORS SING VOICELESSLY.)THE CHOIR:    Liliata rutilantium te confessorum ...    Iubilantium te virginum ...(FROM THE TOP OF A TOWER BUCK MULLIGAN, IN PARTICOLOURED JESTERSDRESS OF PUCE AND YELLOW AND CLOWNS CAP WITH CURLING BELL, STANDSGAPING AT HER, A SMOKING BUTTERED SPLIT SCONE IN HIS HAND.)BUCK MULLIGAN: Shes beastly dead. The pity of it! Mulligan meets theafflicted mother. (HE UPTURNS HIS EYES) Mercurial Malachi!THE MOTHER: (WITH THE SUBTLE SMILE OF DEATHS MADNESS) I was once thebeautiful May Goulding. I am dead.STEPHEN: (HORRORSTRUCK) Lemur, who are you? No. What bogeymanstrick is this?BUCK MULLIGAN: (SHAKES HIS CURLING CAPBELL) The mockery of it! Kinchdogsbody killed her bitchbody. She kicked the bucket. (TEARS OF MOLTENBUTTER FALL FROM HIS EYES ON TO THE SCONE) Our great sweet mother!EPI OINOPA PONTON.THE MOTHER: (COMES NEARER, BREATHING UPON HIM SOFTLY HER BREATH OF WETTEDASHES) All must go through it, Stephen. More women than men in the world.You too. Time will come.STEPHEN: (CHOKING WITH FRIGHT, REMORSE AND HORROR) They say I killed you,mother. He offended your memory. Cancer did it, not I. Destiny.THE MOTHER: (A GREEN RILL OF BILE TRICKLING FROM A SIDE OF HER MOUTH)You sang that song to me. LOVES BITTER MYSTERY.STEPHEN: (EAGERLY) Tell me the word, mother, if you know now. The wordknown to all men.THE MOTHER: Who saved you the night you jumped into the train at Dalkeywith Paddy Lee? Who had pity for you when you were sad among thestrangers? Prayer is allpowerful. Prayer for the suffering souls in theUrsuline manual and forty days indulgence. Repent, Stephen.STEPHEN: The ghoul! Hyena!THE MOTHER: I pray for you in my other world. Get Dilly to make you thatboiled rice every night after your brainwork. Years and years I loved you,O, my son, my firstborn, when you lay in my womb.ZOE: (FANNING HERSELF WITH THE GRATE FAN) Im melting!FLORRY: (POINTS TO STEPHEN) Look! Hes white.BLOOM: (GOES TO THE WINDOW TO OPEN IT MORE) Giddy.THE MOTHER: (WITH SMOULDERING EYES) Repent! O, the fire of hell!STEPHEN: (PANTING) His noncorrosive sublimate! The corpsechewer! Raw headand bloody bones.THE MOTHER: (HER FACE DRAWING NEAR AND NEARER, SENDING OUT AN ASHENBREATH) Beware! (SHE RAISES HER BLACKENED WITHERED RIGHT ARM SLOWLYTOWARDS STEPHENS BREAST WITH OUTSTRETCHED FINGER) Beware Gods hand!(A GREEN CRAB WITH MALIGNANT RED EYES STICKS DEEP ITS GRINNING CLAWSIN STEPHENS HEART.)STEPHEN: (STRANGLED WITH RAGE) Shite! (HIS FEATURES GROW DRAWN GREYAND OLD)BLOOM: (AT THE WINDOW) What?STEPHEN: AH NON, PAR EXEMPLE! The intellectual imagination! With me allor not at all. NON SERVIAM!FLORRY: Give him some cold water. Wait. (SHE RUSHES OUT)THE MOTHER: (WRINGS HER HANDS SLOWLY, MOANING DESPERATELY) O Sacred Heartof Jesus, have mercy on him! Save him from hell, O Divine Sacred Heart!STEPHEN: No! No! No! Break my spirit, all of you, if you can! Ill bringyou all to heel!THE MOTHER: (IN THE AGONY OF HER DEATHRATTLE) Have mercy on Stephen, Lord,for my sake! Inexpressible was my anguish when expiring with love, griefand agony on Mount Calvary.STEPHEN: NOTHUNG!(HE LIFTS HIS ASHPLANT HIGH WITH BOTH HANDS AND SMASHES THECHANDELIER. TIMES LIVID FINAL FLAME LEAPS AND, IN THE FOLLOWINGDARKNESS, RUIN OF ALL SPACE, SHATTERED GLASS AND TOPPLING MASONRY.)THE GASJET: Pwfungg!BLOOM: Stop!LYNCH: (RUSHES FORWARD AND SEIZES STEPHENS HAND) Here! Hold on! Dont runamok!BELLA: Police!(STEPHEN, ABANDONING HIS ASHPLANT, HIS HEAD AND ARMS THROWN BACKSTARK, BEATS THE GROUND AND FLIES FROM THE ROOM, PAST THE WHORES ATTHE DOOR.)BELLA: (SCREAMS) After him!(THE TWO WHORES RUSH TO THE HALLDOOR. LYNCH AND KITTY AND ZOESTAMPEDE FROM THE ROOM. THEY TALK EXCITEDLY. BLOOM FOLLOWS,RETURNS.)THE WHORES: (JAMMED IN THE DOORWAY, POINTING) Down there.ZOE: (POINTING) There. Theres something up.BELLA: Who pays for the lamp? (SHE SEIZES BLOOMS COATTAIL) Here, you werewith him. The lamps broken.BLOOM: (RUSHES TO THE HALL, RUSHES BACK) What lamp, woman?A WHORE: He tore his coat.BELLA: (HER EYES HARD WITH ANGER AND CUPIDITY, POINTS) Whos to payfor that? Ten shillings. Youre a witness.BLOOM: (SNATCHES UP STEPHENS ASHPLANT) Me? Ten shillings? Havent youlifted enough off him? Didnt he ...?BELLA: (LOUDLY) Here, none of your tall talk. This isnt a brothel.A ten shilling house.BLOOM: (HIS HEAD UNDER THE LAMP, PULLS THE CHAIN. PULING, THE GASJETLIGHTS UP A CRUSHED MAUVE PURPLE SHADE. HE RAISES THE ASHPLANT.) Only thechimneys broken. Here is all he ...BELLA: (SHRINKS BACK AND SCREAMS) Jesus! Dont!BLOOM: (WARDING OFF A BLOW) To show you how he hit the paper. Theres notsixpenceworth of damage done. Ten shillings!FLORRY: (WITH A GLASS OF WATER, ENTERS) Where is he?BELLA: Do you want me to call the police?BLOOM: O, I know. Bulldog on the premises. But hes a Trinity student.Patrons of your establishment. Gentlemen that pay the rent. (HE MAKES AMASONIC SIGN) Know what I mean? Nephew of the vice-chancellor. You dontwant a scandal.BELLA: (ANGRILY) Trinity. Coming down here ragging after the boatraces andpaying nothing. Are you my commander here or? Where is he? Ill chargehim! Disgrace him, I will! (SHE SHOUTS) Zoe! Zoe!BLOOM: (URGENTLY) And if it were your own son in Oxford? (WARNINGLY) I know.BELLA: (ALMOST SPEECHLESS) Who are. Incog!ZOE: (IN THE DOORWAY) Theres a row on.BLOOM: What? Where? (HE THROWS A SHILLING ON THE TABLE AND STARTS)Thats for the chimney. Where? I need mountain air.(HE HURRIES OUT THROUGH THE HALL. THE WHORES POINT. FLORRY FOLLOWS,SPILLING WATER FROM HER TILTED TUMBLER. ON THE DOORSTEP ALL THEWHORES CLUSTERED TALK VOLUBLY, POINTING TO THE RIGHT WHERE THE FOGHAS CLEARED OFF FROM THE LEFT ARRIVES A JINGLING HACKNEY CAR. IT SLOWSTO IN FRONT OF THE HOUSE. BLOOM AT THE HALLDOOR PERCEIVES CORNYKELLEHER WHO IS ABOUT TO DISMOUNT FROM THE CAR WITH TWO SILENTLECHERS. HE AVERTS HIS FACE. BELLA FROM WITHIN THE HALL URGES ON HERWHORES. THEY BLOW ICKYLICKYSTICKY YUMYUM KISSES. CORNY KELLEHERREPLIES WITH A GHASTLY LEWD SMILE. THE SILENT LECHERS TURN TO PAY THEJARVEY. ZOE AND KITTY STILL POINT RIGHT. BLOOM, PARTING THEM SWIFTLY,DRAWS HIS CALIPHS HOOD AND PONCHO AND HURRIES DOWN THE STEPSWITH SIDEWAYS FACE. INCOG HAROUN AL RASCHID HE FLITS BEHIND THESILENT LECHERS AND HASTENS ON BY THE RAILINGS WITH FLEET STEP OF A PARDSTREWING THE DRAG BEHIND HIM, TORN ENVELOPES DRENCHED IN ANISEED.THE ASHPLANT MARKS HIS STRIDE. A PACK OF BLOODHOUNDS, LED BYHORNBLOWER OF TRINITY BRANDISHING A DOGWHIP IN TALLYHO CAP ANDAN OLD PAIR OF GREY TROUSERS, FOLLOW FROM FIR, PICKING UP THE SCENT,NEARER, BAYING, PANTING, AT FAULT, BREAKING AWAY, THROWING THEIRTONGUES, BITING HIS HEELS, LEAPING AT HIS TAIL HE WALKS, RUNS, ZIGZAGS,GALLOPS, LUGS LAID BACK. HE IS PELTED WITH GRAVEL, CABBAGESTUMPS,BISCUITBOXES, EGGS, POTATOES, DEAD CODFISH, WOMANS SLIPPERSLAPPERS.AFTER HIM FRESHFOUND THE HUE AND CRY ZIGZAG GALLOPS IN HOT PURSUITOF FOLLOW MY LEADER:  C,  C, NIGHT WATCH, JOHN HENRY MENTON,WISDOM HELY, VB DILLON, COUNCILLOR NANNETTI, ALEXANDER KEYES,LARRY OROURKE, JOE CUFFE MRS ODOWD, PISSER BURKE, THENAMELESS ONE, MRS RIORDAN, THE CITIZEN, GARRYOWEN, WHODOYOUCALLHIM,STRANGEFACE, FELLOWTHATSOLIKE, SAWHIMBEFORE, CHAPWITHAWEN,CHRIS CALLINAN, SIR CHARLES CAMERON, BENJAMIN DOLLARD, LENEHAN,BARTELL DARCY, JOE HYNES, RED MURRAY, EDITOR BRAYDEN, T. M. HEALY,MR JUSTICE FITZGIBBON, JOHN HOWARD PARNELL, THE REVEREND TINNEDSALMON, PROFESSOR JOLY, MRS BREEN, DENIS BREEN, THEODORE PUREFOY, MINAPUREFOY, THE WESTLAND ROW POSTMISTRESS, C. P. MCOY, FRIEND OF LYONS,HOPPY HOLOHAN, MANINTHESTREET, OTHERMANINTHESTREET, FOOTBALLBOOTS,PUGNOSED DRIVER, RICH PROTESTANT LADY, DAVY BYRNE, MRS ELLENMGUINNESS, MRS JOE GALLAHER, GEORGE LIDWELL, JIMMY HENRY ON CORNS,SUPERINTENDENT LARACY, FATHER COWLEY, CROFTON OUT OF THECOLLECTOR-GENERALS, DAN DAWSON, DENTAL SURGEON BLOOM WITH TWEEZERS,MRS BOB DORAN, MRS KENNEFICK, MRS WYSE NOLAN, JOHN WYSE NOLAN,HANDSOMEMARRIEDWOMANRUBBEDAGAINSTWIDEBEHINDINCLONSKEATRAM,THE BOOKSELLER OF SWEETS OF SIN, MISS DUBEDATANDSHEDIDBEDAD,MESDAMES GERALD AND STANISLAUS MORAN OF ROEBUCK, THE MANAGINGCLERK OF DRIMMIES, WETHERUP, COLONEL HAYES, MASTIANSKY, CITRON,PENROSE, AARON FIGATNER, MOSES HERZOG, MICHAEL E GERAGHTY, INSPECTORTROY, MRS GALBRAITH, THE CONSTABLE OFF ECCLES STREET CORNER,OLD DOCTOR BRADY WITH STETHOSCOPE, THE MYSTERY MAN ON THE BEACH,A RETRIEVER, MRS MIRIAM DANDRADE AND ALL HER LOVERS.)THE HUE AND CRY: (HELTERSKELTERPELTERWELTER) Hes Bloom! Stop Bloom!Stopabloom! Stopperrobber! Hi! Hi! Stophim on the corner!(AT THE CORNER OF BEAVER STREET BENEATH THE SCAFFOLDING BLOOMPANTING STOPS ON THE FRINGE OF THE NOISY QUARRELLING KNOT, A LOT NOTKNOWING A JOT WHAT HI! HI! ROW AND WRANGLE ROUND THE WHOWHATBRAWLALTOGETHER.)STEPHEN: (WITH ELABORATE GESTURES, BREATHING DEEPLY AND SLOWLY) You aremy guests. Uninvited. By virtue of the fifth of George and seventh ofEdward. History to blame. Fabled by mothers of memory.PRIVATE CARR: (TO CISSY CAFFREY) Was he insulting you?STEPHEN: Addressed her in vocative feminine. Probably neuter. Ungenitive.VOICES: No, he didnt. I seen him. The girl there. He was in Mrs Cohens.Whats up? Soldier and civilian.CISSY CAFFREY: I was in company with the soldiers and they left me todo--you know, and the young man run up behind me. But Im faithful to theman thats treating me though Im only a shilling whore.STEPHEN: (CATCHES SIGHT OF LYNCHS AND KITTYS HEADS) Hail, Sisyphus.(HE POINTS TO HIMSELF AND THE OTHERS) Poetic. Uropoetic.VOICES: Shes faithfultheman.CISSY CAFFREY: Yes, to go with him. And me with a soldier friend.PRIVATE COMPTON: He doesnt half want a thick ear, the blighter. Biff himone, Harry.PRIVATE CARR: (TO CISSY) Was he insulting you while me and him washaving a piss?LORD TENNYSON: (GENTLEMAN POET IN UNION JACK BLAZER AND CRICKET FLANNELS,BAREHEADED, FLOWINGBEARDED) Theirs not to reason why.PRIVATE COMPTON: Biff him, Harry.STEPHEN: (TO PRIVATE COMPTON) I dont know your name but you are quiteright. Doctor Swift says one man in armour will beat ten men in theirshirts. Shirt is synechdoche. Part for the whole.CISSY CAFFREY: (TO THE CROWD) No, I was with the privates.STEPHEN: (AMIABLY) Why not? The bold soldier boy. In my opinion every ladyfor example ...PRIVATE CARR: (HIS CAP AWRY, ADVANCES TO STEPHEN) Say, how would it be,governor, if I was to bash in your jaw?STEPHEN: (LOOKS UP TO THE SKY) How? Very unpleasant. Noble art ofselfpretence. Personally, I detest action. (HE WAVES HIS HAND) Hand hurtsme slightly. ENFIN CE SONT VOS OIGNONS. (TO CISSY CAFFREY) Some trouble ison here. What is it precisely?DOLLY GRAY: (FROM HER BALCONY WAVES HER HANDKERCHIEF, GIVING THE SIGN OFTHE HEROINE OF JERICHO) Rahab. Cooks son, goodbye. Safe home to Dolly.Dream of the girl you left behind and she will dream of you.(THE SOLDIERS TURN THEIR SWIMMING EYES.)BLOOM: (ELBOWING THROUGH THE CROWD, PLUCKS STEPHENS SLEEVE VIGOROUSLY)Come now, professor, that carman is waiting.STEPHEN: (TURNS) Eh? (HE DISENGAGES HIMSELF) Why should I not speak to himor to any human being who walks upright upon this oblate orange? (HEPOINTS HIS FINGER) Im not afraid of what I can talk to if I see his eye.Retaining the perpendicular.(HE STAGGERS A PACE BACK)BLOOM: (PROPPING HIM) Retain your own.STEPHEN: (LAUGHS EMPTILY) My centre of gravity is displaced. I haveforgotten the trick. Let us sit down somewhere and discuss. Struggle forlife is the law of existence but but human philirenists, notably the tsarand the king of England, have invented arbitration. (HE TAPS HIS BROW) Butin here it is I must kill the priest and the king.BIDDY THE CLAP: Did you hear what the professor said? Hes a professor outof the college.CUNTY KATE: I did. I heard that.BIDDY THE CLAP: He expresses himself with such marked refinement ofphraseology.CUNTY KATE: Indeed, yes. And at the same time with such appositetrenchancy.PRIVATE CARR: (PULLS HIMSELF FREE AND COMES FORWARD) Whats that youresaying about my king?(EDWARD THE SEVENTH APPEARS IN AN ARCHWAY. HE WARS A WHITEJERSEY ON WHICH AN IMAGE OF THE SACRED HEART IS STITCHED WITH THEINSIGNIA OF GARTER AND THISTLE, GOLDEN FLEECE, ELEPHANT OFDENMARK, SKINNERS AND PROBYNS HORSE, LINCOLN S INN BENCHERAND ANCIENT AND HONOURABLE ARTILLERY COMPANY OF MASSACHUSETTS.HE SUCKS A RED JUJUBE. HE IS ROBED AS A GRAND ELECT PERFECT ANDSUBLIME MASON WITH TROWEL AND APRON, MARKED MADE IN Germany.IN HIS LEFT HAND HE HOLDS A PLASTERERS BUCKET ON WHICH IS PRINTEDDEFENSE DURINER. A ROAR OF WELCOME GREETS HIM.)EDWARD THE SEVENTH: (SLOWLY, SOLEMNLY BUT INDISTINCTLY) Peace, perfectpeace. For identification, bucket in my hand. Cheerio, boys. (HE TURNS TOHIS SUBJECTS) We have come here to witness a clean straight fight and weheartily wish both men the best of good luck. Mahak makar a bak.(HE SHAKES HANDS WITH PRIVATE CARR, PRIVATE COMPTON, STEPHEN, BLOOM ANDLYNCH. GENERAL APPLAUSE. EDWARD THE SEVENTH LIFTS HIS BUCKET GRACIOUSLYIN ACKNOWLEDGMENT.)PRIVATE CARR: (TO STEPHEN) Say it again.STEPHEN: (NERVOUS, FRIENDLY, PULLS HIMSELF UP) I understand your point ofview though I have no king myself for the moment. This is the age of patentmedicines. A discussion is difficult down here. But this is the point.You die for your country. Suppose. (HE PLACES HIS ARM ON PRIVATE CARRSSLEEVE)  Not that I wish it for you. But I say: Let my country die for me.Up to the  present it has done so. I didnt want it to die. Damn death.Long live life!EDWARD THE SEVENTH: (LEVITATES OVER HEAPS OF SLAIN, IN THE GARB AND WITHTHE HALO OF JOKING JESUS, A WHITE JUJUBE IN HIS PHOSPHORESCENT FACE)    My methods are new and are causing surprise.    To make the blind see I throw dust in their eyes.STEPHEN: Kings and unicorns! (HE FILLS BACK A PACE) Come somewhere andwell ... What was that girl saying? ...PRIVATE COMPTON: Eh, Harry, give him a kick in the knackers. Stick oneinto Jerry.BLOOM: (TO THE PRIVATES, SOFTLY) He doesnt know what hes saying. Taken alittle more than is good for him. Absinthe. Greeneyed monster. I know him.Hes a gentleman, a poet. Its all right.STEPHEN: (NODS, SMILING AND LAUGHING) Gentleman, patriot, scholar and judge ofimpostors.PRIVATE CARR: I dont give a bugger who he is.PRIVATE COMPTON: We dont give a bugger who he is.STEPHEN: I seem to annoy them. Green rag to a bull.(KEVIN EGAN OF PARIS IN BLACK SPANISH TASSELLED SHIRT AND PEEP-O-DAYBOYS HAT SIGNS TO STEPHEN.)KEVIN EGAN: HLO! BONJOUR! THE VIEILLE OGRESSE with the DENTS JAUNES.(PATRICE EGAN PEEPS FROM BEHIND, HIS RABBITFACE NIBBLING A QUINCE LEAF.)PATRICE: SOCIALISTE!DON EMILE PATRIZO FRANZ RUPERT POPE HENNESSY: (IN MEDIEVAL HAUBERK,TWO WILD GEESE VOLANT ON HIS HELM, WITH NOBLE INDIGNATION POINTS A MAILEDHAND AGAINST THE PRIVATES) Werf those eykes to footboden, big grand porcosof johnyellows todos covered of gravy!BLOOM: (TO STEPHEN) Come home. Youll get into trouble.STEPHEN: (SWAYING) I dont avoid it. He provokes my intelligence.BIDDY THE CLAP: One immediately observes that he is of patrician lineage.THE VIRAGO: Green above the red, says he. Wolfe Tone.THE BAWD: The reds as good as the green. And better. Up the soldiers!Up King Edward!A ROUGH: (LAUGHS) Ay! Hands up to De Wet.THE CITIZEN: (WITH A HUGE EMERALD MUFFLER AND SHILLELAGH, CALLS)    May the God above    Send down a dove    With teeth as sharp as razors    To slit the throats    Of the English dogs    That hanged our Irish leaders.THE CROPPY BOY: (THE ROPENOOSE ROUND HIS NECK, GRIPES IN HIS ISSUINGBOWELS WITH BOTH HANDS)    I bear no hate to a living thing,    But I love my country beyond the king.RUMBOLD, DEMON BARBER: (ACCOMPANIED BY TWO BLACKMASKED ASSISTANTS,ADVANCES WITH GLADSTONE BAG WHICH HE OPENS) Ladies and gents, cleaverpurchased by Mrs Pearcy to slay Mogg. Knife with which Voisin dismemberedthe wife of a compatriot and hid remains in a sheet in the cellar, theunfortunate females throat being cut from ear to ear. Phial containingarsenic retrieved from body of Miss Barron which sent Seddon to thegallows.(HE JERKS THE ROPE. THE ASSISTANTS LEAP AT THE VICTIMS LEGS AND DRAGHIM DOWNWARD, GRUNTING THE CROPPY BOYS TONGUE PROTRUDESVIOLENTLY.)THE CROPPY BOY:    Horhot ho hray hor hothers hest.(HE GIVES UP THE GHOST. A VIOLENT ERECTION OF THE HANGED SENDS GOUTSOF SPERM SPOUTING THROUGH HIS DEATHCLOTHES ON TO THE COBBLESTONES.MRS BELLINGHAM, MRS YELVERTON BARRY AND THE HONOURABLE MRSMERVYN TALBOYS RUSH FORWARD WITH THEIR HANDKERCHIEFS TO SOP IT UP.)RUMBOLD: Im near it myself. (HE UNDOES THE NOOSE) Rope which hanged theawful rebel. Ten shillings a time. As applied to Her Royal Highness.(HE PLUNGES HIS HEAD INTO THE GAPING BELLY OF THE HANGED AND DRAWS OUT HISHEAD AGAIN CLOTTED WITH COILED AND SMOKING ENTRAILS) My painful duty hasnow been done. God save the king!EDWARD THE SEVENTH: (DANCES SLOWLY, SOLEMNLY, RATTLING HIS BUCKET, ANDSINGS WITH SOFT CONTENTMENT)    On coronation day, on coronation day,    O, wont we have a merry time,    Drinking whisky, beer and wine!PRIVATE CARR: Here. What are you saying about my king?STEPHEN: (THROWS UP HIS HANDS) O, this is too monotonous! Nothing.He wants my money and my life, though want must be his master, for somebrutish empire of his. Money I havent. (HE SEARCHES HIS POCKETS VAGUELY)GAVE IT TO SOMEONE.PRIVATE CARR: Who wants your bleeding money?STEPHEN: (TRIES TO MOVE OFF) Will someone tell me where I am least likelyto meet these necessary evils? CA SE VOIT AUSSI A PARIS. Not thatI ... But, by Saint Patrick ...!(THE WOMENS HEADS COALESCE. OLD GUMMY GRANNY IN SUGARLOAFHAT APPEARS SEATED ON A TOADSTOOL, THE DEATHFLOWER OF THE POTATOBLIGHT ON HER BREAST.)STEPHEN: Aha! I know you, gammer! Hamlet, revenge! The old sow that eatsher farrow!OLD GUMMY GRANNY: (ROCKING TO AND FRO) Irelands sweetheart, the king ofSpains daughter, alanna. Strangers in my house, bad manners to them!(SHE KEENS WITH BANSHEE WOE) Ochone! Ochone! Silk of the kine! (SHE WAILS)You met with poor old Ireland and how does she stand?STEPHEN: How do I stand you? The hat trick! Wheres the third person ofthe Blessed Trinity? Soggarth Aroon? The reverend Carrion Crow.CISSY CAFFREY: (SHRILL) Stop them from fighting!A ROUGH: Our men retreated.PRIVATE CARR: (TUGGING AT HIS BELT) Ill wring the neck of any fucker saysa word against my fucking king.BLOOM: (TERRIFIED) He said nothing. Not a word. A pure misunderstanding.THE CITIZEN: ERIN GO BRAGH!(MAJOR TWEEDY AND THE CITIZEN EXHIBIT TO EACH OTHER MEDALS,DECORATIONS, TROPHIES OF WAR, WOUNDS. BOTH SALUTE WITH FIERCE HOSTILITY.)PRIVATE COMPTON: Go it, Harry. Do him one in the eye. Hes a proboer.STEPHEN: Did I? When?BLOOM: (TO THE REDCOATS) We fought for you in South Africa, Irish missiletroops. Isnt that history? Royal Dublin Fusiliers. Honoured by ourmonarch.THE NAVVY: (STAGGERING PAST) O, yes! O God, yes! O, make the kwawr akrowawr! O! Bo!(CASQUED HALBERDIERS IN ARMOUR THRUST FORWARD A PENTICE OF GUTTEDSPEARPOINTS. MAJOR TWEEDY, MOUSTACHED LIKE TURKO THE TERRIBLE, INBEARSKIN CAP WITH HACKLEPLUME AND ACCOUTREMENTS, WITH EPAULETTES,GILT CHEVRONS AND SABRETACHES, HIS BREAST BRIGHT WITH MEDALS, TOESTHE LINE. HE GIVES THE PILGRIM WARRIORS SIGN OF THE KNIGHTSTEMPLARS.)MAJOR TWEEDY: (GROWLS GRUFFLY) Rorkes Drift! Up, guards, and at them!Mahar shalal hashbaz.PRIVATE CARR: Ill do him in.PRIVATE COMPTON: (WAVES THE CROWD BACK) Fair play, here. Make a bleedingbutchers shop of the bugger.(MASSED BANDS BLARE GARRYOWEN AND GOD SAVE THE KING.)CISSY CAFFREY: Theyre going to fight. For me!CUNTY KATE: The brave and the fair.BIDDY THE CLAP: Methinks yon sable knight will joust it with the best.CUNTY KATE: (BLUSHING DEEPLY) Nay, madam. The gules doublet and merrysaint George for me!STEPHEN:    The harlots cry from street to street    Shall weave Old Irelands windingsheet.PRIVATE CARR: (LOOSENING HIS BELT, SHOUTS) Ill wring the neck of anyfucking bastard says a word against my bleeding fucking king.BLOOM: (SHAKES CISSY CAFFREYS SHOULDERS) Speak, you! Are you struck dumb?You are the link between nations and generations. Speak, woman, sacredlifegiver!CISSY CAFFREY: (ALARMED, SEIZES PRIVATE CARRS SLEEVE) Amnt I with you?Amnt I your girl? Cissys your girl. (SHE CRIES) Police!STEPHEN: (ECSTATICALLY, TO CISSY CAFFREY)    White thy fambles, red thy gan    And thy quarrons dainty is.VOICES: Police!DISTANT VOICES: Dublins burning! Dublins burning! On fire, on fire!(BRIMSTONE FIRES SPRING UP. DENSE CLOUDS ROLL PAST. HEAVY GATLINGGUNS BOOM. PANDEMONIUM. TROOPS DEPLOY. GALLOP OF HOOFS.ARTILLERY. HOARSE COMMANDS. BELLS CLANG BACKERS SHOUT. DRUNKARDSBAWL. WHORES SCREECH. FOGHORNS HOOT. CRIES OF VALOUR. SHRIEKS OFDYING. PIKES CLASH ON CUIRASSES. THIEVES ROB THE SLAIN. BIRDS OF PREY,WINGING FROM THE SEA, RISING FROM MARSHLANDS, SWOOPING FROMEYRIES, HOVER SCREAMING, GANNETS, CORMORANTS, VULTURES, GOSHAWKS,CLIMBING WOODCOCKS, PEREGRINES, MERLINS, BLACKGROUSE, SEA EAGLES,GULLS, ALBATROSSES, BARNACLE GEESE. THE MIDNIGHT SUN IS DARKENED.THE EARTH TREMBLES. THE DEAD OF DUBLIN FROM PROSPECT AND MOUNTJEROME IN WHITE SHEEPSKIN OVERCOATS AND BLACK GOATFELL CLOAKS ARISEAND APPEAR TO MANY. A CHASM OPENS WITH A NOISELESS YAWN. TOMROCHFORD, WINNER, IN ATHLETES SINGLET AND BREECHES, ARRIVES AT THEHEAD OF THE NATIONAL HURDLE HANDICAP AND LEAPS INTO THE VOID. HE ISFOLLOWED BY A RACE OF RUNNERS AND LEAPERS. IN WILD ATTITUDES THEYSPRING FROM THE BRINK. THEIR BODIES PLUNGE. FACTORY LASSES WITHFANCY CLOTHES TOSS REDHOT YORKSHIRE BARAABOMBS. SOCIETY LADIES LIFTTHEIR SKIRTS ABOVE THEIR HEADS TO PROTECT THEMSELVES. LAUGHINGWITCHES IN RED CUTTY SARKS RIDE THROUGH THE AIR ON BROOMSTICKS.QUAKERLYSTER PLASTERS BLISTERS. IT RAINS DRAGONS TEETH. ARMED HEROESSPRING UP FROM FURROWS. THEY EXCHANGE IN AMITY THE PASS OF KNIGHTSOF THE RED CROSS AND FIGHT DUELS WITH CAVALRY SABRES: WOLFE TONEAGAINST HENRY GRATTAN, SMITH OBRIEN AGAINST DANIEL OCONNELL,MICHAEL DAVITT AGAINST ISAAC BUTT, JUSTIN MCARTHY AGAINST PARNELL,ARTHUR GRIFFITH AGAINST JOHN REDMOND, JOHN OLEARY AGAINST LEAROJOHNNY, LORD EDWARD FITZGERALD AGAINST LORD GERALDFITZEDWARD, THE ODONOGHUE OF THE GLENS AGAINST THE GLENS OFTHE ODONOGHUE. ON AN EMINENCE, THE CENTRE OF THE EARTH, RISES THEFELDALTAR OF SAINT BARBARA. BLACK CANDLES RISE FROM ITS GOSPEL ANDEPISTLE HORNS. FROM THE HIGH BARBACANS OF THE TOWER TWO SHAFTS OFLIGHT FALL ON THE SMOKEPALLED ALTARSTONE. ON THE ALTARSTONE MRS MINAPUREFOY, GODDESS OF UNREASON, LIES, NAKED, FETTERED, A CHALICE RESTINGON HER SWOLLEN BELLY. FATHER MALACHI OFLYNN IN A LACE PETTICOATAND REVERSED CHASUBLE, HIS TWO LEFT FEET BACK TO THE FRONT, CELEBRATESCAMP MASS. THE REVEREND MR HUGH C HAINES LOVE M. A. IN APLAIN CASSOCK AND MORTARBOARD, HIS HEAD AND COLLAR BACK TO THEFRONT, HOLDS OVER THE CELEBRANTS HEAD AN OPEN UMBRELLA.)FATHER MALACHI OFLYNN: INTROIBO AD ALTARE DIABOLI.THE REVEREND MR HAINES LOVE: To the devil which hath made glad my youngdays.FATHER MALACHI OFLYNN: (TAKES FROM THE CHALICE AND ELEVATES ABLOODDRIPPING HOST) CORPUS MEUM.THE REVEREND MR HAINES LOVE: (RAISES HIGH BEHIND THE CELEBRANTSPETTICOAT, REVEALING HIS GREY BARE HAIRY BUTTOCKS BETWEEN WHICH A CARROTIS STUCK) My body.THE VOICE OF ALL THE DAMNED: Htengier Tnetopinmo Dog Drol eht rof,Aiulella!(FROM ON HIGH THE VOICE OF ADONAI CALLS.)ADONAI: Dooooooooooog!THE VOICE OF ALL THE BLESSED: Alleluia, for the Lord God Omnipotentreigneth!(FROM ON HIGH THE VOICE OF ADONAI CALLS.)ADONAI: Goooooooooood!(IN STRIDENT DISCORD PEASANTS AND TOWNSMEN OF ORANGE AND GREENFACTIONS SING Kick the Pope AND Daily, daily sing to Mary.)PRIVATE CARR: (WITH FEROCIOUS ARTICULATION) Ill do him in, so help mefucking Christ! Ill wring the bastard fuckers bleeding blasted fuckingwindpipe!OLD GUMMY GRANNY: (THRUSTS A DAGGER TOWARDS STEPHENS HAND) Remove him,acushla. At . a.m. you will be in heaven and Ireland will be free.(SHE PRAYS) O good God, take him!(THE RETRIEVER, NOSING ON THE FRINGE OF THE CROWD, BARKS NOISILY.)BLOOM: (RUNS TO LYNCH) Cant you get him away?LYNCH: He likes dialectic, the universal language. Kitty! (TO BLOOM)Get him away, you. He wont listen to me.(HE DRAGS KITTY AWAY.)STEPHEN: (POINTS) EXIT JUDAS. ET LAQUEO SE SUSPENDIT.BLOOM: (RUNS TO STEPHEN) Come along with me now before worse happens.Heres your stick.STEPHEN: Stick, no. Reason. This feast of pure reason.CISSY CAFFREY: (PULLING PRIVATE CARR) Come on, youre boosed. He insultedme but I forgive him. (SHOUTING IN HIS EAR) I forgive him for insulting me.BLOOM: (OVER STEPHENS SHOULDER) Yes, go. You see hes incapable.PRIVATE CARR: (BREAKS LOOSE) Ill insult him.(HE RUSHES TOWARDS STEPHEN, FIST OUTSTRETCHED, AND STRIKES HIM INTHE FACE. STEPHEN TOTTERS, COLLAPSES, FALLS, STUNNED. HE LIES PRONE, HISFACE TO THE SKY, HIS HAT ROLLING TO THE WALL BLOOM FOLLOWS AND PICKS ITUP.)MAJOR TWEEDY: (LOUDLY) Carbine in bucket! Cease fire! Salute!THE RETRIEVER: (BARKING FURIOUSLY) Ute ute ute ute ute ute ute ute.THE CROWD: Let him up! Dont strike him when hes down! Air! Who? Thesoldier hit him. Hes a professor. Is he hurted? Dont manhandle him! Hesfainted!A HAG: What call had the redcoat to strike the gentleman and he under theinfluence. Let them go and fight the Boers!THE BAWD: Listen to whos talking! Hasnt the soldier a right to go withhis girl? He gave him the cowards blow.(THEY GRAB AT EACH OTHERS HAIR, CLAW AT EACH OTHER AND SPIT)THE RETRIEVER: (BARKING) Wow wow wow.BLOOM: (SHOVES THEM BACK, LOUDLY) Get back, stand back!PRIVATE COMPTON: (TUGGING HIS COMRADE) Here. Bugger off, Harry.Heres the cops! (TWO RAINCAPED WATCH, TALL, STAND IN THE GROUP.)FIRST WATCH: Whats wrong here?PRIVATE COMPTON: We were with this lady. And he insulted us. And assaultedmy chum. (THE RETRIEVER BARKS) Who owns the bleeding tyke?CISSY CAFFREY: (WITH EXPECTATION) Is he bleeding!A MAN: (RISING FROM HIS KNEES) No. Gone off. Hell come to all right.BLOOM: (GLANCES SHARPLY AT THE MAN) Leave him to me. I can easily ...SECOND WATCH: Who are you? Do you know him?PRIVATE CARR: (LURCHES TOWARDS THE WATCH) He insulted my lady friend.BLOOM: (ANGRILY) You hit him without provocation. Im a witness.Constable, take his regimental number.SECOND WATCH: I dont want your instructions in the discharge of my duty.PRIVATE COMPTON: (PULLING HIS COMRADE) Here, bugger off Harry. OrBennettll shove you in the lockup.PRIVATE CARR: (STAGGERING AS HE IS PULLED AWAY) God fuck old Bennett.Hes a whitearsed bugger. I dont give a shit for him.FIRST WATCH: (TAKES OUT HIS NOTEBOOK) Whats his name?BLOOM: (PEERING OVER THE CROWD) I just see a car there. If you give me ahand a second, sergeant ...FIRST WATCH: Name and address.(CORNY KELLEKER, WEEPERS ROUND HIS HAT, A DEATH WREATH IN HIS HAND,APPEARS AMONG THE BYSTANDERS.)BLOOM: (QUICKLY) O, the very man! (HE WHISPERS) Simon Dedalus son. A bitsprung. Get those policemen to move those loafers back.SECOND WATCH: Night, Mr Kelleher.CORNY KELLEHER: (TO THE WATCH, WITH DRAWLING EYE) Thats all right.I know him. Won a bit on the races. Gold cup. Throwaway. (HE LAUGHS)Twenty to one. Do you follow me?FIRST WATCH: (TURNS TO THE CROWD) Here, what are you all gaping at?Move on out of that.(THE CROWD DISPERSES SLOWLY, MUTTERING, DOWN THE LANE.)CORNY KELLEHER: Leave it to me, sergeant. Thatll be all right.(HE LAUGHS, SHAKING HIS HEAD) We were often as bad ourselves, ay or worse.What? Eh, what?FIRST WATCH: (LAUGHS) I suppose so.CORNY KELLEHER: (NUDGES THE SECOND WATCH) Come and wipe your name off theslate. (HE LILTS, WAGGING HIS HEAD) With my tooraloom tooraloom tooraloomtooraloom. What, eh, do you follow me?SECOND WATCH: (GENIALLY) Ah, sure we were too.CORNY KELLEHER: (WINKING) Boys will be boys. Ive a car round there.SECOND WATCH: All right, Mr Kelleher. Good night.CORNY KELLEHER: Ill see to that.BLOOM: (SHAKES HANDS WITH BOTH OF THE WATCH IN TURN) Thank you very much,gentlemen. Thank you. (HE MUMBLES CONFIDENTIALLY) We dont want anyscandal, you understand. Father is a wellknown highly respected citizen.Just a little wild oats, you understand.FIRST WATCH: O. I understand, sir.SECOND WATCH: Thats all right, sir.FIRST WATCH: It was only in case of corporal injuries Id have to reportit at the station.BLOOM: (NODS RAPIDLY) Naturally. Quite right. Only your bounden duty.SECOND WATCH: Its our duty.CORNY KELLEHER: Good night, men.THE WATCH: (SALUTING TOGETHER) Night, gentlemen. (THEY MOVE OFF WITHSLOW HEAVY TREAD)BLOOM: (BLOWS) Providential you came on the scene. You have a car? ...CORNY KELLEHER: (LAUGHS, POINTING HIS THUMB OVER HIS RIGHT SHOULDER TO THECAR BROUGHT UP AGAINST THE SCAFFOLDING) Two commercials that were standingfizz in Jammets. Like princes, faith. One of them lost two quid on therace. Drowning his grief. And were on for a go with the jolly girls.So I landed them up on Behans car and down to nighttown.BLOOM: I was just going home by Gardiner street when I happened to ...CORNY KELLEHER: (LAUGHS) Sure they wanted me to join in with the mots.No, by God, says I. Not for old stagers like myself and yourself.(HE LAUGHS AGAIN AND LEERS WITH LACKLUSTRE EYE) Thanks be to God we haveit in the house, what, eh, do you follow me? Hah, hah, hah!BLOOM: (TRIES TO LAUGH) He, he, he! Yes. Matter of fact I was just visitingan old friend of mine there, Virag, you dont know him (poor fellow, heslaid up for the past week) and we had a liquor together and I was justmaking my way home ...(THE HORSE NEIGHS.)THE HORSE: Hohohohohohoh! Hohohohome!CORNY KELLEHER: Sure it was Behan our jarvey there that told me after weleft the two commercials in Mrs Cohens and I told him to pull up and gotoff to see. (HE LAUGHS) Sober hearsedrivers a speciality. Will I give hima lift home? Where does he hang out? Somewhere in Cabra, what?BLOOM: No, in Sandycove, I believe, from what he let drop.(STEPHEN, PRONE, BREATHES TO THE STARS. CORNY KELLEHER, ASQUINT,DRAWLS AT THE HORSE. BLOOM, IN GLOOM, LOOMS DOWN.)CORNY KELLEHER: (SCRATCHES HIS NAPE) Sandycove! (HE BENDS DOWN AND CALLSTO STEPHEN) Eh! (HE CALLS AGAIN) Eh! Hes covered with shavings anyhow.Take care they didnt lift anything off him.BLOOM: No, no, no. I have his money and his hat here and stick.CORNY KELLEHER: Ah, well, hell get over it. No bones broken. Well, Illshove along. (HE LAUGHS) Ive a rendezvous in the morning. Burying thedead. Safe home!THE HORSE: (NEIGHS) Hohohohohome.BLOOM: Good night. Ill just wait and take him along in a few ...(CORNY KELLEHER RETURNS TO THE OUTSIDE CAR AND MOUNTS IT. THEHORSE HARNESS JINGLES.)CORNY KELLEHER: (FROM THE CAR, STANDING) Night.BLOOM: Night.(THE JARVEY CHUCKS THE REINS AND RAISES HIS WHIP ENCOURAGINGLY.THE CAR AND HORSE BACK SLOWLY, AWKWARDLY, AND TURN. CORNYKELLEHER ON THE SIDESEAT SWAYS HIS HEAD TO AND FRO IN SIGN OF MIRTH ATBLOOMS PLIGHT. THE JARVEY JOINS IN THE MUTE PANTOMIMIC MERRIMENTNODDING FROM THE FARTHER SEAT. BLOOM SHAKES HIS HEAD IN MUTEMIRTHFUL REPLY. WITH THUMB AND PALM CORNY KELLEHER REASSURES THATTHE TWO BOBBIES WILL ALLOW THE SLEEP TO CONTINUE FOR WHAT ELSE IS TO BEDONE. WITH A SLOW NOD BLOOM CONVEYS HIS GRATITUDE AS THAT ISEXACTLY WHAT STEPHEN NEEDS. THE CAR JINGLES TOORALOOM ROUND THECORNER OF THE TOORALOOM LANE. CORNY KELLEHER AGAIN REASSURALOOMSWITH HIS HAND. BLOOM WITH HIS HAND ASSURALOOMS CORNY KELLEHERTHAT HE IS REASSURALOOMTAY. THE TINKLING HOOFS AND JINGLING HARNESSGROW FAINTER WITH THEIR TOORALOOLOO LOOLOO LAY. BLOOM, HOLDING INHIS HAND STEPHENS HAT, FESTOONED WITH SHAVINGS, AND ASHPLANT,STANDS IRRESOLUTE. THEN HE BENDS TO HIM AND SHAKES HIM BY THESHOULDER.)BLOOM: Eh! Ho! (THERE IS NO ANSWER; HE BENDS AGAIN) Mr Dedalus! (THERE ISNO ANSWER) The name if you call. Somnambulist. (HE BENDS AGAIN ANDHESITATING, BRINGS HIS MOUTH NEAR THE FACE OF THE PROSTRATE FORM) Stephen!(THERE IS NO ANSWER. HE CALLS AGAIN.) Stephen!STEPHEN: (GROANS) Who? Black panther. Vampire. (HE SIGHS AND STRETCHESHIMSELF, THEN MURMURS THICKLY WITH PROLONGED VOWELS)    Who ... drive... Fergus now    And pierce ... woods woven shade? ...(HE TURNS ON HIS LEFT SIDE, SIGHING, DOUBLING HIMSELF TOGETHER.)BLOOM: Poetry. Well educated. Pity. (HE BENDS AGAIN AND UNDOES THE BUTTONSOF STEPHENS WAISTCOAT) To breathe. (HE BRUSHES THE WOODSHAVINGS FROMSTEPHENS CLOTHES WITH LIGHT HAND AND FINGERS) One pound seven. Not hurtanyhow. (HE LISTENS) What?STEPHEN: (MURMURS)    ... shadows ... the woods    ... white breast... dim sea.(HE STRETCHES OUT HIS ARMS, SIGHS AGAIN AND CURLS HIS BODY. BLOOM,HOLDING THE HAT AND ASHPLANT, STANDS ERECT. A DOG BARKS IN THEDISTANCE. BLOOM TIGHTENS AND LOOSENS HIS GRIP ON THE ASHPLANT. HELOOKS DOWN ON STEPHENS FACE AND FORM.)BLOOM: (COMMUNES WITH THE NIGHT) Face reminds me of his poor mother. In theshady wood. The deep white breast. Ferguson, I think I caught. A girl.Some girl. Best thing could happen him. (HE MURMURS) ... swear that I willalways hail, ever conceal, never reveal, any part or parts, art orarts ... (HE MURMURS) ... in the rough sands of the sea ... a cabletowslength from the shore ... where the tide ebbs ... and flows ...(SILENT, THOUGHTFUL, ALERT HE STANDS ON GUARD, HIS FINGERS AT HIS LIPS INTHE ATTITUDE OF SECRET MASTER. AGAINST THE DARK WALL A FIGURE APPEARSSLOWLY, A FAIRY BOY OF ELEVEN, A CHANGELING, KIDNAPPED, DRESSED IN ANETON SUIT WITH GLASS SHOES AND A LITTLE BRONZE HELMET, HOLDING A BOOKIN HIS HAND. HE READS FROM RIGHT TO LEFT INAUDIBLY, SMILING, KISSINGTHE PAGE.)BLOOM: (WONDERSTRUCK, CALLS INAUDIBLY) Rudy!RUDY: (GAZES, UNSEEING, INTO BLOOMS EYES AND GOES ON READING, KISSING,SMILING. HE HAS A DELICATE MAUVE FACE. ON HIS SUIT HE HAS DIAMOND AND RUBYBUTTONS. IN HIS FREE LEFT HAND HE HOLDS A SLIM IVORY CANE WITH A VIOLETBOWKNOT. A WHITE LAMBKIN PEEPS OUT OF HIS WAISTCOAT POCKET.)    -- III --Preparatory to anything else Mr Bloom brushed off the greater bulkof the shavings and handed Stephen the hat and ashplant and bucked himup generally in orthodox Samaritan fashion which he very badly needed.His (Stephens) mind was not exactly what you would call wandering but abit unsteady and on his expressed desire for some beverage to drink MrBloom in view of the hour it was and there being no pump of Vartry wateravailable for their ablutions let alone drinking purposes hit upon anexpedient by suggesting, off the reel, the propriety of the cabmansshelter, as it was called, hardly a stonesthrow away near Butt bridgewhere they might hit upon some drinkables in the shape of a milk andsoda or a mineral. But how to get there was the rub. For the nonce he wasrather nonplussed but inasmuch as the duty plainly devolved upon him totake some measures on the subject he pondered suitable ways and means duringwhich Stephen repeatedly yawned. So far as he could see he was rather palein the face so that it occurred to him as highly advisable to get a conveyanceof some description which would answer in their then condition, both ofthem being e.d.ed, particularly Stephen, always assuming that there wassuch a thing to be found. Accordingly after a few such preliminaries asbrushing, in spite of his having forgotten to take up his rather soapsuddyhandkerchief after it had done yeoman service in the shaving line, they bothwalked together along Beaver street or, more properly, lane as far as thefarriers and the distinctly fetid atmosphere of the livery stables at thecorner of Montgomery street where they made tracks to the left from thencedebouching into Amiens street round by the corner of Dan Bergins. But ashe confidently anticipated there was not a sign of a Jehu plying for hireanywhere to be seen except a fourwheeler, probably engaged by somefellows inside on the spree, outside the North Star hotel and there was nosymptom of its budging a quarter of an inch when Mr Bloom, who wasanything but a professional whistler, endeavoured to hail it by emitting akind of a whistle, holding his arms arched over his head, twice.This was a quandary but, bringing common sense to bear on it,evidently there was nothing for it but.put a good face on the matter and footit which they accordingly did. So, bevelling around by Mulletts and theSignal House which they shortly reached, they proceeded perforce in thedirection of Amiens street railway terminus, Mr Bloom being handicappedby the circumstance that one of the back buttons of his trousers had, to varythe timehonoured adage, gone the way of all buttons though, enteringthoroughly into the spirit of the thing, he heroically made light of themischance. So as neither of them were particularly pressed for time, as ithappened, and the temperature refreshing since it cleared up after the recentvisitation of Jupiter Pluvius, they dandered along past by where the emptyvehicle was waiting without a fare or a jarvey. As it so happened a DublinUnited Tramways Companys sandstrewer happened to be returning andthe elder man recounted to his companion A PROPOS of the incident his owntruly miraculous escape of some little while back. They passed the mainentrance of the Great Northern railway station, the starting point forBelfast, where of course all traffic was suspended at that late hour andpassing the backdoor of the morgue (a not very enticing locality, not to saygruesome to a degree, more especially at night) ultimately gained the DockTavern and in due course turned into Store street, famous for itsC division police station. Between this point and the high at present unlitwarehouses of Beresford place Stephen thought to think of Ibsen,associated with Bairds the stonecutters in his mind somehow in Talbotplace, first turning on the right, while the other who was acting as his fidusAchates inhaled with internal satisfaction the smell of James Rourkes citybakery, situated quite close to where they were, the very palatable odourindeed of our daily bread, of all commodities of the public the primary andmost indispensable. Bread, the staff of life, earn your bread, O tell me whereis fancy bread, at Rourkes the bakers it is said.En route to his taciturn and, not to put too fine a point on it, not yetperfectly sober companion Mr Bloom who at all events was in completepossession of his faculties, never more so, in fact disgustingly sober, spokea word of caution re the dangers of nighttown, women of ill fame and swellmobsmen, which, barely permissible once in a while though not as ahabitual practice, was of the nature of a regular deathtrap for youngfellows of his age particularly if they had acquired drinking habits underthe influence of liquor unless you knew a little jiujitsu for everycontingencyas even a fellow on the broad of his back could administer a nasty kick ifyou didnt look out. Highly providential was the appearance on the scene ofCorny Kelleher when Stephen was blissfully unconscious but for that manin the gap turning up at the eleventh hour the finis might have been that hemight have been a candidate for the accident ward or, failing that, thebridewell and an appearance in the court next day before Mr Tobias or, hebeing the solicitor rather, old Wall, he meant to say, or Mahony whichsimply spelt ruin for a chap when it got bruited about. The reason hementioned the fact was that a lot of those policemen, whom he cordiallydisliked, were admittedly unscrupulous in the service of the Crown and, asMr Bloom put it, recalling a case or two in the A division in Clanbrassilstreet, prepared to swear a hole through a ten gallon pot. Never on the spotwhen wanted but in quiet parts of the city, Pembroke road for example, the guardians of the law were well in evidence, the obvious reason being theywere paid to protect the upper classes. Another thing he commented on wasequipping soldiers with firearms or sidearms of any description liable to gooff at any time which was tantamount to inciting them against civiliansshould by any chance they fall out over anything. You frittered away yourtime, he very sensibly maintained, and health and also character besideswhich, the squandermania of the thing, fast women of the demimonde ranaway with a lot of l s. d. into the bargain and the greatest danger of all was*******************~~who you got drunk with though, touching the much vexed question ofstimulants, he relished a glass of choice old wine in season as both nourishing and bloodmaking and possessing aperient virtues (notably agood burgundy which he was a staunch believer in) still never beyond acertain point where he invariably drew the line as it simply led to troubleall round to say nothing of your being at the tender mercy of otherspractically. Most of all he commented adversely on the desertion of Stephenby all his pubhunting confreres but one, a most glaring piece of ratting onthe part of his brother medicos under all the circs.--And that one was Judas, Stephen said, who up to then had said nothingwhatsoever of any kind.Discussing these and kindred topics they made a beeline across theback of the Customhouse and passed under the Loop Line bridge where abrazier of coke burning in front of a sentrybox or something like oneattracted their rather lagging footsteps. Stephen of his own accord stoppedfor no special reason to look at the heap of barren cobblestones and by thelight emanating from the brazier he could just make out the darker figure ofthe corporation watchman inside the gloom of the sentrybox. He began toremember that this had happened or had been mentioned as havinghappened before but it cost him no small effort before he remembered thathe recognised in the sentry a quondam friend of his fathers, Gumley. Toavoid a meeting he drew nearer to the pillars of the railway bridge.--Someone saluted you, Mr Bloom said.A figure of middle height on the prowl evidently under the archessaluted again, calling:--Night!Stephen of course started rather dizzily and stopped to return thecompliment. Mr Bloom actuated by motives of inherent delicacy inasmuchas he always believed in minding his own business moved off butnevertheless remained on the qui vive with just a shade of anxiety thoughnot funkyish in the least. Though unusual in the Dublin area he knew thatit was not by any means unknown for desperadoes who had next to nothingto live on to be abroad waylaying and generally terrorising peaceablepedestrians by placing a pistol at their head in some secluded spot outsidethe city proper, famished loiterers of the Thames embankment categorythey might be hanging about there or simply marauders ready to decampwith whatever boodle they could in one fell swoop at a moments notice,your money or your life, leaving you there to point a moral, gagged andgarrotted.Stephen, that is when the accosting figure came to close quarters,though he was not in an over sober state himself recognised Corleys breathredolent of rotten cornjuice. Lord John Corley some called him and hisgenealogy came about in this wise. He was the eldest son of inspectorCorley of the G division, lately deceased, who had married a certainKatherine Brophy, the daughter of a Louth farmer. His grandfatherPatrick Michael Corley of New Ross had married the widow of a publicanthere whose maiden name had been Katherine (also) Talbot. Rumour had it(though not proved) that she descended from the house of the lords Talbotde Malahide in whose mansion, really an unquestionably fine residence ofits kind and well worth seeing, her mother or aunt or some relative, awoman, as the tale went, of extreme beauty, had enjoyed the distinction ofbeing in service in the washkitchen. This therefore was the reason why thestill comparatively young though dissolute man who now addressedStephen was spoken of by some with facetious proclivities as Lord JohnCorley.Taking Stephen on one side he had the customary doleful ditty to tell.Not as much as a farthing to purchase a nights lodgings. His friends hadall deserted him. Furthermore he had a row with Lenehan and called him toStephen a mean bloody swab with a sprinkling of a number of otheruncalledfor expressions. He was out of a job and implored of Stephen totell him where on Gods earth he could get something, anything at all, to do.No, it was the daughter of the mother in the washkitchen that wasfostersister to the heir of the house or else they were connected through themother in some way, both occurrences happening at the same time if thewhole thing wasnt a complete fabrication from start to finish. Anyhow hewas all in.--I wouldnt ask you only, pursued he, on my solemn oath and God knowsIm on the rocks.--Therell be a job tomorrow or next day, Stephen told him, in a boysschool at Dalkey for a gentleman usher. Mr Garrett Deasy. Try it. You maymention my name.--Ah, God, Corley replied, sure I couldnt teach in a school, man. I wasnever one of your bright ones, he added with a half laugh. I got stuck twicein the junior at the christian brothers.--I have no place to sleep myself, Stephen informed him.Corley at the first go-off was inclined to suspect it was something todo with Stephen being fired out of his digs for bringing in a bloody tart offthe street. There was a dosshouse in Marlborough street, Mrs Maloneys,but it was only a tanner touch and full of undesirables but MConachie toldhim you got a decent enough do in the Brazen Head over in Winetavernstreet (which was distantly suggestive to the person addressed of friarBacon) for a bob. He was starving too though he hadnt said a word about it.Though this sort of thing went on every other night or very near itstill Stephens feelings got the better of him in a sense though he knew thatCorleys brandnew rigmarole on a par with the others was hardly deservingof much credence. However haud ignarus malorum miseris succurrere discoetcetera as the Latin poet remarks especially as luck would have it he gotpaid his screw after every middle of the month on the sixteenth which wasthe date of the month as a matter of fact though a good bit of thewherewithal was demolished. But the cream of the joke was nothing wouldget it out of Corleys head that he was living in affluence and hadnt a thingto do but hand out the needful. Whereas. He put his hand in a pocketanyhow not with the idea of finding any food there but thinking he mightlend him anything up to a bob or so in lieu so that he might endeavour at allevents and get sufficient to eat but the result was in the negative for, tohis chagrin, he found his cash missing. A few broken biscuits were all theresult of his investigation. He tried his hardest to recollect for the momentwhether he had lost as well he might have or left because in thatcontingency it was not a pleasant lookout, very much the reverse in fact. Hewas altogether too fagged out to institute a thorough search though he triedto recollect. About biscuits he dimly remembered. Who now exactly gavethem he wondered or where was or did he buy. However in another pockethe came across what he surmised in the dark were pennies, erroneouslyhowever, as it turned out.--Those are halfcrowns, man, Corley corrected him.And so in point of fact they turned out to be. Stephen anyhow lenthim one of them.--Thanks, Corley answered, youre a gentleman. Ill pay you back onetime. Whos that with you? I saw him a few times in the Bleeding Horse inCamden street with Boylan, the billsticker. You might put in a good wordfor us to get me taken on there. Id carry a sandwichboard only the girl inthe office told me theyre full up for the next three weeks, man. God, youveto book ahead, man, youd think it was for the Carl Rosa. I dont give ashite anyway so long as I get a job, even as a crossing sweeper.Subsequently being not quite so down in the mouth after the two andsix he got he informed Stephen about a fellow by the name of BagsComisky that he said Stephen knew well out of Fullams, theshipchandlers, bookkeeper there that used to be often round in Naglesback with OMara and a little chap with a stutter the name of Tighe.Anyhow he was lagged the night before last and fined ten bob for a drunkand disorderly and refusing to go with the constable.Mr Bloom in the meanwhile kept dodging about in the vicinity of thecobblestones near the brazier of coke in front of the corporationwatchmans sentrybox who evidently a glutton for work, it struck him, washaving a quiet forty winks for all intents and purposes on his own privateaccount while Dublin slept. He threw an odd eye at the same time now andthen at Stephens anything but immaculately attired interlocutor as if hehad seen that nobleman somewhere or other though where he was not in aposition to truthfully state nor had he the remotest idea when. Being alevelheaded individual who could give points to not a few in point of shrewdobservation he also remarked on his very dilapidated hat and slouchywearing apparel generally testifying to a chronic impecuniosity. Palpably hewas one of his hangerson but for the matter of that it was merely a questionof one preying on his nextdoor neighbour all round, in every deep, so to putit, a deeper depth and for the matter of that if the man in the street chancedto be in the dock himself penal servitude with or without the option of a finewould be a very rara avis altogether. In any case he had a consummateamount of cool assurance intercepting people at that hour of the night ormorning. Pretty thick that was certainly.The pair parted company and Stephen rejoined Mr Bloom who, withhis practised eye, was not without perceiving that he had succumbed to theblandiloquence of the other parasite. Alluding to the encounter he said,laughingly, Stephen, that is:--He is down on his luck. He asked me to ask you to ask somebody namedBoylan, a billsticker, to give him a job as a sandwichman.At this intelligence, in which he seemingly evinced little interest, MrBloom gazed abstractedly for the space of a half a second or so in thedirection of a bucketdredger, rejoicing in the farfamed name of Eblana,moored alongside Customhouse quay and quite possibly out of repair,whereupon he observed evasively:--Everybody gets their own ration of luck, they say. Now you mention ithis face was familiar to me. But, leaving that for the moment, how much didyou part with, he queried, if I am not too inquisitive?--Half a crown, Stephen responded. I daresay he needs it to sleepsomewhere.--Needs! Mr Bloom ejaculated, professing not the least surprise at theintelligence, I can quite credit the assertion and I guarantee he invariablydoes. Everyone according to his needs or everyone according to his deeds.But, talking about things in general, where, added he with a smile, will yousleep yourself? Walking to Sandycove is out of the question. And evensupposing you did you wont get in after what occurred at Westland Rowstation. Simply fag out there for nothing. I dont mean to presume to dictateto you in the slightest degree but why did you leave your fathers house?--To seek misfortune, was Stephens answer.--I met your respected father on a recent occasion, Mr Bloomdiplomatically returned, today in fact, or to be strictly accurate, onyesterday. Where does he live at present? I gathered in the course ofconversation that he had moved.--I believe he is in Dublin somewhere, Stephen answered unconcernedly.Why?--A gifted man, Mr Bloom said of Mr Dedalus senior, in more respects thanone and a born raconteur if ever there was one. He takes great pride, quitelegitimate, out of you. You could go back perhaps, he hasarded, stillthinking of the very unpleasant scene at Westland Row terminus when itwas perfectly evident that the other two, Mulligan, that is, and that Englishtourist friend of his, who eventually euchred their third companion, werepatently trying as if the whole bally station belonged to them to giveStephen the slip in the confusion, which they did.There was no response forthcoming to the suggestion however, suchas it was, Stephens minds eye being too busily engaged in repicturing hisfamily hearth the last time he saw it with his sister Dilly sitting by theingle, her hair hanging down, waiting for some weak Trinidad shell cocoa thatwas in the sootcoated kettle to be done so that she and he could drink itwith the oatmealwater for milk after the Friday herrings they had eaten attwo a penny with an egg apiece for Maggy, Boody and Katey, the catmeanwhile under the mangle devouring a mess of eggshells and charred fishheads and bones on a square of brown paper, in accordance with the thirdprecept of the church to fast and abstain on the days commanded, it beingquarter tense or if not, ember days or something like that.--No, Mr Bloom repeated again, I wouldnt personally repose much trust inthat boon companion of yours who contributes the humorous element, DrMulligan, as a guide, philosopher and friend if I were in your shoes. Heknows which side his bread is buttered on though in all probability he neverrealised what it is to be without regular meals. Of course you didnt noticeas much as I did. But it wouldnt occasion me the least surprise to learn thata pinch of tobacco or some narcotic was put in your drink for some ulteriorobject.He understood however from all he heard that Dr Mulligan was aversatile allround man, by no means confined to medicine only, who wasrapidly coming to the fore in his line and, if the report was verified, badefair to enjoy a flourishing practice in the not too distant future as a tonymedical practitioner drawing a handsome fee for his services in addition towhich professional status his rescue of that man from certain drowning byartificial respiration and what they call first aid at Skerries, or Malahidewas it?, was, he was bound to admit, an exceedingly plucky deed which hecould not too highly praise, so that frankly he was utterly at a loss tofathom what earthly reason could be at the back of it except he put it downto sheer cussedness or jealousy, pure and simple.--Except it simply amounts to one thing and he is what they call pickingyour brains, he ventured to throw o.ut.The guarded glance of half solicitude half curiosity augmented byfriendliness which he gave at Stephens at present morose expression offeatures did not throw a flood of light, none at all in fact on the problem asto whether he had let himself be badly bamboozled to judge by two or threelowspirited remarks he let drop or the other way about saw through theaffair and for some reason or other best known to himself allowed mattersto more or less. Grinding poverty did have that effect and he more thanconjectured that, high educational abilities though he possessed, heexperienced no little difficulty in making both ends meet.Adjacent to the mens public urinal they perceived an icecream carround which a group of presumably Italians in heated altercation weregetting rid of voluble expressions in their vivacious language in aparticularly animated way, there being some little differences between theparties.--Puttana madonna, che ci dia i quattrini! Ho ragione? Culo rotto!--Intendiamoci. Mezzo sovrano piu ...--Dice lui, pero!--Mezzo.--Farabutto! Mortacci sui!--Ma ascolta! Cinque la testa piu ...Mr Bloom and Stephen entered the cabmans shelter, anunpretentious wooden structure, where, prior to then, he had rarely if everbeen before, the former having previously whispered to the latter a fewhints anent the keeper of it said to be the once famous Skin-the-GoatFitzharris, the invincible, though he could not vouch for the actual factswhich quite possibly there was not one vestige of truth in. A few momentslater saw our two noctambules safely seated in a discreet corner only to begreeted by stares from the decidedly miscellaneous collection of waifs andstrays and other nondescript specimens of the genus homo already thereengaged in eating and drinking diversified by conversation for whom theyseemingly formed an object of marked curiosity.--Now touching a cup of coffee, Mr Bloom ventured to plausibly suggest tobreak the ice, it occurs to me you ought to sample something in the shape ofsolid food, say, a roll of some description.Accordingly his first act was with characteristic sangfroid to orderthese commodities quietly. The hoi polloi of jarvies or stevedores orwhatever they were after a cursory examination turned their eyesapparently dissatisfied, away though one redbearded bibulous individualportion of whose hair was greyish, a sailor probably, still stared for someappreciable time before transferring his rapt attention to the floor. MrBloom, availing himself of the right of free speech, he having just a bowingacquaintance with the language in dispute, though, to be sure, rather in aquandary over voglio, remarked to his protege in an audible tone of voice apropos of the battle royal in the street which was still raging fast andfurious:--A beautiful language. I mean for singing purposes. Why do you not writeyour poetry in that language? Bella Poetria! It is so melodious and full.Belladonna. Voglio.Stephen, who was trying his dead best to yawn if he could, sufferingfrom lassitude generally, replied:--To fill the ear of a cow elephant. They were haggling over money.--Is that so? Mr Bloom asked. Of course, he subjoined pensively, at theinward reflection of there being more languages to start with than wereabsolutely necessary, it may be only the southern glamour that surrounds it.The keeper of the shelter in the middle of this tete-a-tete put a boilingswimming cup of a choice concoction labelled coffee on the table and arather antediluvian specimen of a bun, or so it seemed. After which he beata retreat to his counter, Mr Bloom determining to have a good square lookat him later on so as not to appear to. For which reason he encouragedStephen to proceed with his eyes while he did the honours by surreptitiouslypushing the cup of what was temporarily supposed to be called coffeegradually nearer him.--Sounds are impostures, Stephen said after a pause of some little time, likenames. Cicero, Podmore. Napoleon, Mr Goodbody. Jesus, Mr Doyle.Shakespeares were as common as Murphies. Whats in a name?--Yes, to be sure, Mr Bloom unaffectedly concurred. Of course. Our namewas changed too, he added, pushing the socalled roll across.The redbearded sailor who had his weather eye on the newcomersboarded Stephen, whom he had singled out for attention in particular,squarely by asking:--And what might your name be?Just in the nick of time Mr Bloom touched his companions boot butStephen, apparently disregarding the warm pressure from an unexpectedquarter, answered:--Dedalus.The sailor stared at him heavily from a pair of drowsy baggy eyes,rather bunged up from excessive use of boose, preferably good oldHollands and water.--You know Simon Dedalus? he asked at length.--Ive heard of him, Stephen said.Mr Bloom was all at sea for a moment, seeing the others evidentlyeavesdropping too.--Hes Irish, the seaman bold affirmed, staring still in much the same wayand nodding. All Irish.--All too Irish, Stephen rejoined.As for Mr Bloom he could neither make head or tail of the wholebusiness and he was just asking himself what possible connection when thesailor of his own accord turned to the other occupants of the shelter withthe remark:--I seen him shoot two eggs off two bottles at fifty yards over hisshoulder. The lefthand dead shot.Though he was slightly hampered by an occasional stammer and hisgestures being also clumsy as it was still he did his best to explain.--Bottles out there, say. Fifty yards measured. Eggs on the bottles. Cockshis gun over his shoulder. Aims.He turned his body half round, shut up his right eye completely. Thenhe screwed his features up someway sideways and glared out into the nightwith an unprepossessing cast of countenance.--Pom! he then shouted once.The entire audience waited, anticipating an additional detonation,there being still a further egg.--Pom! he shouted twice.Egg two evidently demolished, he nodded and winked, addingbloodthirstily:--Buffalo Bill shoots to kill,Never missed nor he never will.A silence ensued till Mr Bloom for agreeableness sake just felt likeasking him whether it was for a marksmanship competition like the Bisley.--Beg pardon, the sailor said.--Long ago? Mr Bloom pursued without flinching a hairsbreadth.--Why, the sailor replied, relaxing to a certain extent under the magicinfluence of diamond cut diamond, it might be a matter of ten years. Hetoured the wide world with Henglers Royal Circus. I seen him do that inStockholm.--Curious coincidence, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen unobtrusively.--Murphys my name, the sailor continued. D. B. Murphy of Carrigaloe.Know where that is?--Queenstown harbour, Stephen replied.--Thats right, the sailor said. Fort Camden and Fort Carlisle. Thatswhere I hails from. I belongs there. Thats where I hails from. My littlewomans down there. Shes waiting for me, I know. For England, home andbeauty. Shes my own true wife I havent seen for seven years now, sailingabout.Mr Bloom could easily picture his advent on this scene, thehomecoming to the mariners roadside shieling after having diddled DavyJones, a rainy night with a blind moon. Across the world for a wife. Quitea number of stories there were on that particular Alice Ben Bolt topic,Enoch Arden and Rip van Winkle and does anybody hereabouts remember CaocOLeary, a favourite and most trying declamation piece by the way of poorJohn Casey and a bit of perfect poetry in its own small way. Never aboutthe runaway wife coming back, however much devoted to the absentee. Theface at the window! Judge of his astonishment when he finally did breastthe tape and the awful truth dawned upon him anent his better half,wrecked in his affections. You little expected me but Ive come to stayand make a fresh start. There she sits, a grasswidow, at the selfsamefireside. Believes me dead, rocked in the cradle of the deep. And theresits uncle Chubb or Tomkin, as the case might be, the publican of theCrown and Anchor, in shirtsleeves, eating rumpsteak and onions. No chairfor father. Broo! The wind! Her brandnew arrival is on her knee,postmortem child. With a high ro! and a randy ro! and my gallopingtearing tandy, O! Bow to the inevitable. Grin and bear it. I remain withmuch love your brokenhearted husband D B Murphy.The sailor, who scarcely seemed to be a Dublin resident, turned toone of the jarvies with the request:--You dont happen to have such a thing as a spare chaw about you?The jarvey addressed as it happened had not but the keeper took a dieof plug from his good jacket hanging on a nail and the desired object waspassed from hand to hand.--Thank you, the sailor said.He deposited the quid in his gob and, chewing and with some slowstammers, proceeded:--We come up this morning eleven oclock. The threemaster Roseveanfrom Bridgwater with bricks. I shipped to get over. Paid off thisafternoon. Theres my discharge. See? D. B. Murphy. A. B. S.In confirmation of which statement he extricated from an insidepocket and handed to his neighbour a not very cleanlooking foldeddocument.--You must have seen a fair share of the world, the keeper remarked,leaning on the counter.--Why, the sailor answered upon reflection upon it, Ive circumnavigated abit since I first joined on. I was in the Red Sea. I was in China andNorth America and South America. We was chased by pirates one voyage.I seen icebergs plenty, growlers. I was in Stockholm and the Black Sea,the Dardanelles under Captain Dalton, the best bloody man that everscuttled a ship. I seen Russia. Gospodi pomilyou. Thats how theRussians prays.--You seen queer sights, dont be talking, put in a jarvey.--Why, the sailor said, shifting his partially chewed plug. I seen queerthings too, ups and downs. I seen a crocodile bite the fluke of an anchorsame as I chew that quid.He took out of his mouth the pulpy quid and, lodging it between histeeth, bit ferociously:--Khaan! Like that. And I seen maneaters in Peru that eats corpses and thelivers of horses. Look here. Here they are. A friend of mine sent me.He fumbled out a picture postcard from his inside pocket whichseemed to be in its way a species of repository and pushed it along thetable. The printed matter on it stated: Choza de Indios. Beni, Bolivia.All focussed their attention at the scene exhibited, a group of savagewomen in striped loincloths, squatted, blinking, suckling, frowning,sleeping amid a swarm of infants (there must have been quite a score ofthem) outside some primitive shanties of osier.--Chews coca all day, the communicative tarpaulin added. Stomachs likebreadgraters. Cuts off their diddies when they cant bear no morechildren.See them sitting there stark ballocknaked eating a dead horses liver raw.His postcard proved a centre of attraction for Messrs the greenhornsfor several minutes if not more.--Know how to keep them off? he inquired generally.Nobody volunteering a statement he winked, saying:--Glass. That boggles em. Glass.Mr Bloom, without evincing surprise, unostentatiously turned over the cardto peruse the partially obliterated address and postmark. It ran asfollows: Tarjeta Postal, Senor A Boudin, Galeria Becche, Santiago, Chile.There was no message evidently, as he took particular notice.Though not an implicit believer in the lurid story narrated (or theeggsniping transaction for that matter despite William Tell and theLazarillo-Don Cesar de Bazan incident depicted in Maritana on whichoccasion the formers ball passed through the latters hat) having detected adiscrepancy between his name (assuming he was the person he representedhimself to be and not sailing under false colours after having boxed thecompass on the strict q.t. somewhere) and the fictitious addressee of themissive which made him nourish some suspicions of our friends bona fidesnevertheless it reminded him in a way of a longcherished plan he meant toone day realise some Wednesday or Saturday of travelling to London vialong sea not to say that he had ever travelled extensively to any great extentbut he was at heart a born adventurer though by a trick of fate he hadconsistently remained a landlubber except you call going to Holyheadwhich was his longest. Martin Cunningham frequently said he would worka pass through Egan but some deuced hitch or other eternally cropped upwith the net result that the scheme fell through. But even suppose it didcome to planking down the needful and breaking Boyds heart it was not sodear, purse permitting, a few guineas at the outside considering the fare toMullingar where he figured on going was five and six, there and back. Thetrip would benefit health on account of the bracing ozone and be in everyway thoroughly pleasurable, especially for a chap whose liver was out oforder, seeing the different places along the route, Plymouth, Falmouth,Southampton and so on culminating in an instructive tour of the sights ofthe great metropolis, the spectacle of our modern Babylon where doubtlesshe would see the greatest improvement, tower, abbey, wealth of Park lane torenew acquaintance with. Another thing just struck him as a by no meansbad notion was he might have a gaze around on the spot to see about tryingto make arrangements about a concert tour of summer music embracing themost prominent pleasure resorts, Margate with mixed bathing and firstratehydros and spas, Eastbourne, Scarborough, Margate and so on, beautifulBournemouth, the Channel islands and similar bijou spots, which mightprove highly remunerative. Not, of course, with a hole and corner scratchcompany or local ladies on the job, witness Mrs C P MCoy type lend meyour valise and Ill post you the ticket. No, something top notch, an all starIrish caste, the Tweedy-Flower grand opera company with his own legalconsort as leading lady as a sort of counterblast to the Elster Grimes andMoody-Manners, perfectly simple matter and he was quite sanguine ofsuccess, providing puffs in the local papers could be managed by somefellow with a bit of bounce who could pull the indispensable wires and thuscombine business with pleasure. But who? That was the rub.Also, without beingactually positive, it struck him a great field was tobe opened up in the line of opening up new routes to keep pace with thetimes apropos of the Fishguard-Rosslare route which, it was mooted, wasonce more on the tapis in the circumlocution departments with the usualquantity of red tape and dillydallying of effete fogeydom and dunderheadsgenerally. A great opportunity there certainly was for push and enterpriseto meet the travelling needs of the public at large, the average man, i.e.Brown, Robinson and Co.It was a subject of regret and absurd as well on the face of it and nosmall blame to our vaunted society that the man in the street, when the system really needed toning up, for the matter of a couple of paltry poundswas debarred from seeing more of the world they lived in instead of beingalways and ever cooped up since my old stick-in-the-mud took me for awife. After all, hang it, they had their eleven and more humdrum months ofit and merited a radical change of venue after the grind of city life in thesummertime for choice when dame Nature is at her spectacular bestconstituting nothing short of a new lease of life. There were equallyexcellent opportunities for vacationists in the home island, delightful sylvanspots for rejuvenation, offering a plethora of attractions as well as abracing tonic for the system in and around Dublin and its picturesqueenvirons even, Poulaphouca to which there was a steamtram, but also fartheraway from the madding crowd in Wicklow, rightly termed the garden of Ireland,an ideal neighbourhood for elderly wheelmen so long as it didnt comedown, and in the wilds of Donegal where if report spoke true the coup d ilwas exceedingly grand though the lastnamed locality was not easilygetatable so that the influx of visitors was not as yet all that it might beconsidering the signal benefits to be derived from it while Howth with itshistoric associations and otherwise, Silken Thomas, Grace OMalley,George IV, rhododendrons several hundred feet above sealevel was afavourite haunt with all sorts and conditions of men especially in the spring when young mens fancy, though it had its own toll of deaths by falling offthe cliffs by design or accidentally, usually, by the way, on their left leg,it being only about three quarters of an hours run from the pillar. Becauseof course uptodate tourist travelling was as yet merely in its infancy, so tospeak, and the accommodation left much to be desired. Interesting tofathom it seemed to him from a motive of curiosity, pure and simple, waswhether it was the traffic that created the route or viceversa or the twosides in fact. He turned back the other side of the card, picture, and passedit along to Stephen.--I seen a Chinese one time, related the doughty narrator, that had little pills like putty and he put them in the water and they opened and every pillwas something different. One was a ship, another was a house, another wasa flower. Cooks rats in your soup, he appetisingly added, the chinks does.Possibly perceiving an expression of dubiosity on their faces theglobetrotter went on, adhering to his adventures.--And I seen a man killed in Trieste by an Italian chap. Knife in his back.Knife like that.Whilst speaking he produced a dangerouslooking claspknife quite inkeeping with his character and held it in the striking position.--In a knockingshop it was count of a tryon between two smugglers. Fellowhid behind a door, come up behind him. Like that. Prepare to meet yourGod, says he. Chuk! It went into his back up to the butt.His heavy glance drowsily roaming about kind of defied their furtherquestions even should they by any chance want to.--Thats a good bit of steel, repeated he, examining his formidable stiletto.After which harrowing denouement sufficient to appal the stoutest hesnapped the blade to and stowed the weapon in question away as before inhis chamber of horrors, otherwise pocket.--Theyre great for the cold steel, somebody who was evidently quite in thedark said for the benefit of them all. That was why they thought the parkmurders of the invincibles was done by foreigners on account of them usingknives.At this remark passed obviously in the spirit of where ignorance isbliss Mr B. and Stephen, each in his own particular way, both instinctivelyexchanged meaning glances, in a religious silence of the strictly entre nousvariety however, towards where Skin-the-Goat, alias the keeper, notturning a hair, was drawing spurts of liquid from his boiler affair. Hisinscrutable face which was really a work of art, a perfect study in itself,beggaring description, conveyed the impression that he didnt understandone jot of what was going on. Funny, very!There ensued a somewhat lengthy pause. One man was reading in fitsand starts a stained by coffee evening journal, another the card with thenatives choza de, another the seamans discharge. Mr Bloom, so far as hewas personally concerned, was just pondering in pensive mood. He vividlyrecollected when the occurrence alluded to took place as well as yesterday,roughly some score of years previously in the days of the land troubles,when it took the civilised world by storm, figuratively speaking, early in theeighties, eightyone to be correct, when he was just turned fifteen.--Ay, boss, the sailor broke in. Give us back them papers.The request being complied with he clawed them up with a scrape.--Have you seen the rock of Gibraltar? Mr Bloom inquired.The sailor grimaced, chewing, in a way that might be read as yes, ayor no.--Ah, youve touched there too, Mr Bloom said, Europa point, thinking hehad, in the hope that the rover might possibly by some reminiscences but hefailed to do so, simply letting spirt a jet of spew into the sawdust, andshook his head with a sort of lazy scorn.--What year would that be about? Mr B interrogated. Can you recall theboats?Our soi-disant sailor munched heavily awhile hungrily beforeanswering:--Im tired of all them rocks in the sea, he said, and boats and ships. Saltjunk all the time.Tired seemingly, he ceased. His questioner perceiving that he was notlikely to get a great deal of change out of such a wily old customer, fell towoolgathering on the enormous dimensions of the water about the globe,suffice it to say that, as a casual glance at the map revealed, it coveredfully three fourths of it and he fully realised accordingly what it meant torule the waves. On more than one occasion, a dozen at the lowest, near theNorth Bull at Dollymount he had remarked a superannuated old salt, evidentlyderelict, seated habitually near the not particularly redolent sea on thewall, staring quite obliviously at it and it at him, dreaming of fresh woodsand pastures new as someone somewhere sings. And it left him wondering why.Possibly he had tried to find out the secret for himself, floundering up anddown the antipodes and all that sort of thing and over and under, well, notexactly under, tempting the fates. And the odds were twenty to nil there wasreally no secret about it at all. Nevertheless, without going into theminutiae of the business, the eloquent fact remained that the sea was there inall its glory and in the natural course of things somebody or other had tosail on it and fly in the face of providence though it merely went to show howpeople usually contrived to load that sort of onus on to the other fellow likethe hell idea and the lottery and insurance which were run on identically thesame lines so that for that very reason if no other lifeboat Sunday was ahighly laudable institution to which the public at large, no matter whereliving inland or seaside, as the case might be, having it brought home to themlike that should extend its gratitude also to the harbourmasters andcoastguard service who had to man the rigging and push off and out amid theelements whatever the season when duty called Ireland expects that every manand so on and sometimes had a terrible time of it in the wintertime notforgetting the Irish lights, Kish and others, liable to capsize at any moment,rounding which he once with his daughter had experienced some remarkablychoppy, not to say stormy, weather.--There was a fellow sailed with me in the Rover, the old seadog, himselfa rover, proceeded, went ashore and took up a soft job as gentlemansvalet at six quid a month. Them are his trousers Ive on me and he gave mean oilskin and that jackknife. Im game for that job, shaving and brushup.I hate roaming about. Theres my son now, Danny, run off to sea and hismother got him took in a drapers in Cork where he could be drawing easymoney.--What age is he? queried one hearer who, by the way, seen from the side,bore a distant resemblance to Henry Campbell, the townclerk, away fromthe carking cares of office, unwashed of course and in a seedy getup and astrong suspicion of nosepaint about the nasal appendage.--Why, the sailor answered with a slow puzzled utterance, my son, Danny?Hed be about eighteen now, way I figure it.The Skibbereen father hereupon tore open his grey or uncleananyhow shirt with his two hands and scratched away at his chest on whichwas to be seen an image tattooed in blue Chinese ink intended to representan anchor.--There was lice in that bunk in Bridgwater, he remarked, sure as nuts. Imust get a wash tomorrow or next day. Its them black lads I objects to. Ihate those buggers. Suck your blood dry, they does.Seeing they were all looking at his chest he accommodatingly draggedhis shirt more open so that on top of the timehonoured symbol of themariners hope and rest they had a full view of the figure  and a youngmans sideface looking frowningly rather.--Tattoo, the exhibitor explained. That was done when we were Iyingbecalmed off Odessa in the Black Sea under Captain Dalton. Fellow, thename of Antonio, done that. There he is himself, a Greek.--Did it hurt much doing it? one asked the sailor.That worthy, however, was busily engaged in collecting round the.Someway in his. Squeezing or.--See here, he said, showing Antonio. There he is cursing the mate. Andthere he is now, he added, the same fellow, pulling the skin with hisfingers, some special knack evidently, and he laughing at a yarn.And in point of fact the young man named Antonios livid face didactually look like forced smiling and the curious effect excited theunreserved admiration of everybody including Skin-the-Goat, who thistime stretched over.--Ay, ay, sighed the sailor, looking down on his manly chest. Hes gonetoo. Ate by sharks after. Ay, ay.He let go of the skin so that the profile resumed the normal expressionof before.--Neat bit of work, one longshoreman said.--And whats the number for? loafer number two queried.--Eaten alive? a third asked the sailor.--Ay, ay, sighed again the latter personage, more cheerily this time withsome sort of a half smile for a brief duration only in the direction ofthe questioner about the number. Ate. A Greek he was.And then he added with rather gallowsbird humour considering hisalleged end:--As bad as old Antonio,For he left me on my ownio.The face of a streetwalker glazed and haggard under a black strawhat peered askew round the door of the shelter palpably reconnoitring onher own with the object of bringing more grist to her mill. Mr Bloom,scarcely knowing which way to look, turned away on the momentflusterfied but outwardly calm, and, picking up from the table the pink sheetof the Abbey street organ which the jarvey, if such he was, had laid aside,he picked it up and looked at the pink of the paper though why pink. Hisreason for so doing was he recognised on the moment round the door thesame face he had caught a fleeting glimpse of that afternoon on Ormondquay, the partially idiotic female, namely, of the lane who knew the lady inthe brown costume does be with you (Mrs B.) and begged the chance of hiswashing. Also why washing which seemed rather vague than not, yourwashing. Still candour compelled him to admit he had washed his wifesundergarments when soiled in Holles street and women would and did tooa mans similar garments initialled with Bewley and Drapers marking ink(hers were, that is) if they really loved him, that is to say, love me, lovemy dirty shirt. Still just then, being on tenterhooks, he desired the femalesroom more than her company so it came as a genuine relief when the keepermade her a rude sign to take herself off. Round the side of the EveningTelegraph he just caught a fleeting glimpse of her face round the side of thedoor with a kind of demented glassy grin showing that she was not exactlyall there, viewing with evident amusement the group of gazers roundskipper Murphys nautical chest and then there was no more of her.--The gunboat, the keeper said.--It beats me, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen, medically I am speaking, howa wretched creature like that from the Lock hospital reeking with diseasecan be barefaced enough to solicit or how any man in his sober senses, if hevalues his health in the least. Unfortunate creature! Of course I supposesome man is ultimately responsible for her condition. Still no matter whatthe cause is from ...Stephen had not noticed her and shrugged his shoulders, merelyremarking:--In this country people sell much more than she ever had and do a roaringtrade. Fear not them that sell the body but have not power to buy the soul.She is a bad merchant. She buys dear and sells cheap.The elder man, though not by any manner of means an old maid or aprude, said it was nothing short of a crying scandal that ought to be put astop to instanter to say that women of that stamp (quite apart from anyoldmaidish squeamishness on the subject), a necessary evil, w ere notlicensed and medically inspected by the proper authorities, a thing, he couldtruthfully state, he, as a paterfamilias, was a stalwart advocate of from thevery first start. Whoever embarked on a policy of the sort, he said, andventilated the matter thoroughly would confer a lasting boon on everybodyconcerned.--You as a good catholic, he observed, talking of body and soul, believe inthe soul. Or do you mean the intelligence, the brainpower as such, asdistinct from any outside object, the table, let us say, that cup. I believein that myself because it has been explained by competent men as theconvolutions of the grey matter. Otherwise we would never have suchinventions as X rays, for instance. Do you?Thus cornered, Stephen had to make a superhuman effort of memoryto try and concentrate and remember before he could say:--They tell me on the best authority it is a simple substance and thereforeincorruptible. It would be immortal, I understand, but for the possibility ofits annihilation by its First Cause Who, from all I can hear, is quite capableof adding that to the number of His other practical jokes, corruptio per seand corruptio per accidens both being excluded by court etiquette.Mr Bloom thoroughly acquiesced in the general gist of this though themystical finesse involved was a bit out of his sublunary depth still he feltbound to enter a demurrer on the head of simple, promptly rejoining:--Simple? I shouldnt think that is the proper word. Of course, I grant you,to concede a point, you do knock across a simple soul once in a blue moon.But what I am anxious to arrive at is it is one thing for instance to inventthose rays Rontgen did or the telescope like Edison, though I believe it wasbefore his time Galileo was the man, I mean, and the same applies to thelaws, for example, of a farreaching natural phenomenon such as electricitybut its a horse of quite another colour to say you believe in the existenceof a supernatural God.--O that, Stephen expostulated, has been proved conclusively by several ofthe bestknown passages in Holy Writ, apart from circumstantial evidence.On this knotty point however the views of the pair, poles apart as theywere both in schooling and everything else with the marked difference intheir respective ages, clashed.--Has been? the more experienced of the two objected, sticking to hisoriginal point with a smile of unbelief. Im not so sure about that. Thats amatter for everymans opinion and, without dragging in the sectarian sideof the business, I beg to differ with you in toto there. My belief is, to tellyou the candid truth, that those bits were genuine forgeries all of them putin by monks most probably or its the big question of our national poet overagain, who precisely wrote them like Hamlet and Bacon, as, you who knowyour Shakespeare infinitely better than I, of course I neednt tell you. Cantyou drink that coffee, by the way? Let me stir it. And take a piece of thatbun. Its like one of our skippers bricks disguised. Still no-one can givewhat he hasnt got. Try a bit.--Couldnt, Stephen contrived to get out, his mental organs for the momentrefusing to dictate further.Faultfinding being a proverbially bad hat Mr Bloom thought well tostir or try to the clotted sugar from the bottom and reflected with somethingapproaching acrimony on the Coffee Palace and its temperance (andlucrative) work. To be sure it was a legitimate object and beyond yea or naydid a world of good, shelters such as the present one they were in run onteetotal lines for vagrants at night, concerts, dramatic evenings and usefullectures (admittance free) by qualified men for the lower orders. On theother hand he had a distinct and painful recollection they paid his wife,Madam Marion Tweedy who had been prominently associated with it atone time, a very modest remuneration indeed for her pianoplaying. Theidea, he was strongly inclined to believe, was to do good and net a profit,there being no competition to speak of. Sulphate of copper poison SO orsomething in some dried peas he remembered reading of in a cheapeatinghouse somewhere but he couldnt remember when it was or where.Anyhow inspection, medical inspection, of all eatables seemed to him morethan ever necessary which possibly accounted for the vogue of Dr TibblesVi-Cocoa on account of the medical analysis involved.--Have a shot at it now, he ventured to say of the coffee after being stirred. Thus prevailed on to at any rate taste it Stephen lifted the heavy mugfrom the brown puddle it clopped out of when taken up by the handle andtook a sip of the offending beverage.--Still its solid food, his good genius urged, Im a stickler for solid food,his one and only reason being not gormandising in the least but regularmeals as the sine qua non for any kind of proper work, mental or manual.You ought to eat more solid food. You would feel a different man.--Liquids I can eat, Stephen said. But O, oblige me by taking away thatknife. I cant look at the point of it. It reminds me of Roman history.Mr Bloom promptly did as suggested and removed the incriminatedarticle, a blunt hornhandled ordinary knife with nothing particularlyRoman or antique about it to the lay eye, observing that the point was theleast conspicuous point about it.--Our mutual friends stories are like himself, Mr Bloom apropos of knivesremarked to his confidante sotto voce. Do you think they are genuine? Hecould spin those yarns for hours on end all night long and lie like old boots.Look at him.Yet still though his eyes were thick with sleep and sea air life was fullof a host of things and coincidences of a terrible nature and it was quitewithin the bounds of possibility that it was not an entire fabrication thoughat first blush there was not much inherent probability in all the spoof he gotoff his chest being strictly accurate gospel.He had been meantime taking stock of the individual in front of himand Sherlockholmesing him up ever since he clapped eyes on him. Thougha wellpreserved man of no little stamina, if a trifle prone to baldness, therewas something spurious in the cut of his jib that suggested a jail deliveryand it required no violent stretch of imagination to associate such aweirdlooking specimen with the oakum and treadmill fraternity. He mighteven have done for his man supposing it was his own case he told, as peopleoften did about others, namely, that he killed him himself and had servedhis four or five goodlooking years in durance vile to say nothing of theAntonio personage (no relation to the dramatic personage of identical namewho sprang from the pen of our national poet) who expiated his crimes inthe melodramatic manner above described. On the other hand he might beonly bluffing, a pardonable weakness because meeting unmistakable mugs,Dublin residents, like those jarvies waiting news from abroad would temptany ancient mariner who sailed the ocean seas to draw the long bow aboutthe schooner Hesperus and etcetera. And when all was said and done thelies a fellow told about himself couldnt probably hold a proverbial candleto the wholesale whoppers other fellows coined about him.--Mind you, Im not saying that its all a pure invention, he resumed.Analogous scenes are occasionally, if not often, met with. Giants, thoughthat is rather a far cry, you see once in a way, Marcella the midget queen. Inthose waxworks in Henry street I myself saw some Aztecs, as they arecalled, sitting bowlegged, they couldnt straighten their legs if you paidthem because the muscles here, you see, he proceeded, indicating on hiscompanion the brief outline of the sinews or whatever you like to call thembehind the right knee, were utterly powerless from sitting that way so longcramped up, being adored as gods. Theres an example again of simplesouls.However reverting to friend Sinbad and his horrifying adventures(who reminded him a bit of Ludwig, alias Ledwidge, when he occupied theboards of the Gaiety when Michael Gunn was identified with themanagement in the Flying Dutchman, a stupendous success, and his host ofadmirers came in large numbers, everyone simply flocking to hear himthough ships of any sort, phantom or the reverse, on the stage usually fell abit flat as also did trains) there was nothing intrinsically incompatibleabout it, he conceded. On the contrary that stab in the back touch was quitein keeping with those italianos though candidly he was none the less free toadmit those icecreamers and friers in the fish way not to mention the chippotato variety and so forth over in little Italy there near the Coombe weresober thrifty hardworking fellows except perhaps a bit too given topothunting the harmless necessary animal of the feline persuasion of othersat night so as to have a good old succulent tuckin with garlic de rigueur offhim or her next day on the quiet and, he added, on the cheap.--Spaniards, for instance, he continued, passionate temperaments like that,impetuous as Old Nick, are given to taking the law into their own handsand give you your quietus doublequick with those poignards they carry inthe abdomen. It comes from the great heat, climate generally. My wife is, soto speak, Spanish, half that is. Point of fact she could actually claimSpanish nationality if she wanted, having been born in (technically) Spain,i.e. Gibraltar. She has the Spanish type. Quite dark, regular brunette, black.I for one certainly believe climate accounts for character. Thats why Iasked you if you wrote your poetry in Italian.--The temperaments at the door, Stephen interposed with, were verypassionate about ten shillings. Roberto ruba roba sua.--Quite so, Mr Bloom dittoed.--Then, Stephen said staring and rambling on to himself or some unknownlistener somewhere, we have the impetuosity of Dante and the isoscelestriangle miss Portinari he fell in love with and Leonardo and san TommasoMastino.--Its in the blood, Mr Bloom acceded at once. All are washed in the bloodof the sun. Coincidence I just happened to be in the Kildare street museum today, shortly prior to our meeting if I can so call it, and I was justlooking at those antique statues there. The splendid proportions of hips,bosom. You simply dont knock against those kind of women here. An exceptionhere and there. Handsome yes, pretty in a way you find but what Imtalking about is the female form. Besides they have so little taste in dress,most of them, which greatly enhances a womans natural beauty, no matterwhat you say. Rumpled stockings, it may be, possibly is, a foible of mine butstill its a thing I simply hate to see.Interest, however, was starting to flag somewhat all round and thenthe others got on to talking about accidents at sea, ships lost in a fog, goocollisions with icebergs, all that sort of thing. Shipahoy of course had hisown say to say. He had doubled the cape a few odd times and weathered amonsoon, a kind of wind, in the China seas and through all those perils ofthe deep there was one thing, he declared, stood to him or words to thateffect, a pious medal he had that saved him.So then after that they drifted on to the wreck off Daunts rock, wreckof that illfated Norwegian barque nobody could think of her name for themoment till the jarvey who had really quite a look of Henry Campbellremembered it Palme on Booterstown strand. That was the talk of the townthat year (Albert William Quill wrote a fine piece of original verse of distinctive merit on the topic for the Irish Times), breakers running overher and crowds and crowds on the shore in commotion petrified withhorror. Then someone said something about the case of the s. s. LadyCairns of Swansea run into by the Mona which was on an opposite tack inrather muggyish weather and lost with all hands on deck. No aid was given.Her master, the Monas, said he was afraid his collision bulkhead wouldgive way. She had no water, it appears, in her hold.At this stage an incident happened. It having become necessary forhim to unfurl a reef the sailor vacated his seat.--Let me cross your bows mate, he said to his neighbour who was justgently dropping off into a peaceful doze.He made tracks heavily, slowly with a dumpy sort of a gait to thedoor, stepped heavily down the one step there was out of the shelter andbore due left. While he was in the act of getting his bearings Mr Bloom whonoticed when he stood up that he had two flasks of presumably ships rumsticking one out of each pocket for the private consumption of his burninginterior, saw him produce a bottle and uncork it or unscrew and, applyingits nozze to his lips, take a good old delectable swig out of it with agurgling noise. The irrepressible Bloom, who also had a shrewd suspicionthat the old stager went out on a manoeuvre after the counterattraction inthe shape of a female who however had disappeared to all intents andpurposes, could by straining just perceive him, when duly refreshed by hisrum puncheon exploit, gaping up at the piers and girders of the Loop linerather out of his depth as of course it was all radically altered since hislast visit and greatly improved. Some person or persons invisible directed himto the male urinal erected by the cleansing committee all over the place forthe purpose but after a brief space of time during which silence reignedsupreme the sailor, evidently giving it a wide berth, eased himself closer athand, the noise of his bilgewater some little time subsequently splashing onthe ground where it apparently awoke a horse of the cabrank. A hoofscooped anyway for new foothold after sleep and harness jingled. Slightlydisturbed in his sentrybox by the brazier of live coke the watcher of thecorporation stones who, though now broken down and fast breaking up,was none other in stern reality than the Gumley aforesaid, now practicallyon the parish rates, given the temporary job by Pat Tobin in all humanprobability from dictates of humanity knowing him before shifted aboutand shuffled in his box before composing his limbs again in to the arms ofMorpheus, a truly amazing piece of hard lines in its most virulent form on afellow most respectably connected and familiarised with decent homecomforts all his life who came in for a cool  pounds a year at one timewhich of course the doublebarrelled ass proceeded to make general ducks anddrakes of. And there he was at the end of his tether after having oftenpainted the town tolerably pink without a beggarly stiver. He drank needlessto be told and it pointed only once more a moral when he might quite easilybe in a large way of business if--a big if, however--he had contrived to curehimself of his particular partiality.All meantime were loudly lamenting the falling off in Irish shipping,coastwise and foreign as well, which was all part and parcel of the samething. A Palgrave Murphy boat was put off the ways at Alexandra basin, theonly launch that year. Right enough the harbours were there only no shipsever called.There were wrecks and wreckers, the keeper said, who was evidentlyau fait.What he wanted to ascertain was why that ship ran bang against theonly rock in Galway bay when the Galway harbour scheme was mooted bya Mr Worthington or some name like that, eh? Ask the then captain, headvised them, how much palmoil the British government gave him for thatdays work, Captain John Lever of the Lever Line.--Am I right, skipper? he queried of the sailor, now returning after hisprivate potation and the rest of his exertions.That worthy picking up the scent of the fagend of the song or wordsgrowled in wouldbe music but with great vim some kind of chanty or otherin seconds or thirds. Mr Blooms sharp ears heard him then expectorate theplug probably (which it was), so that he must have lodged it for the timebeing in his fist while he did the drinking and making water jobs and foundit a bit sour after the liquid fire in question. Anyhow in he rolled after hissuccessful libation-cum-potation, introducing an atmosphere of drink intothe soiree, boisterously trolling, like a veritable son of a seacook:--The biscuits was as hard as brassAnd the beef as salt as Lots wifes arse.O, Johnny Lever!Johnny Lever, O!After which effusion the redoubtable specimen duly arrived on thescene and regaining his seat he sank rather than sat heavily on the formprovided. Skin-the-Goat, assuming he was he, evidently with an axe togrind, was airing his grievances in a forcible-feeble philippic anent thenatural resources of Ireland or something of that sort which he described inhis lengthy dissertation as the richest country bar none on the face of Godsearth, far and away superior to England, with coal in large quantities, sixmillion pounds worth of pork exported every year, ten millions betweenbutter and eggs and all the riches drained out of it by England levying taxeson the poor people that paid through the nose always and gobbling up thebest meat in the market and a lot more surplus steam in the same vein. Theirconversation accordingly became general and all agreed that that was afact. You could grow any mortal thing in Irish soil, he stated, and there wasthat colonel Everard down there in Navan growing tobacco. Where wouldyou find anywhere the like of Irish bacon? But a day of reckoning, he statedcrescendo with no uncertain voice, thoroughly monopolising all theconversation, was in store for mighty England, despite her power of pelf onaccount of her crimes. There would be a fall and the greatest fall in history.The Germans and the Japs were going to have their little lookin, heaffirmed. The Boers were the beginning of the end. Brummagem Englandwas toppling already and her downfall would be Ireland, her Achilles heel,which he explained to them about the vulnerable point of Achilles, theGreek hero, a point his auditors at once seized as he completely grippedtheir attention by showing the tendon referred to on his boot. His advice toevery Irishman was: stay in the land of your birth and work for Irelandand live for Ireland. Ireland, Parnell said, could not spare a single one ofher sons.Silence all round marked the termination of his finale. Thel o l oimpervious navigator heard these lurid tidings, undismayed.--Take a bit of doing, boss, retaliated that rough diamond palpably a bitpeeved in response to the foregoing truism.To which cold douche referring to downfall and so on the keeperconcurred but nevertheless held to his main view.--Whos the best troops in the army? the grizzled old veteran iratelyinterrogated. And the best jumpers and racers? And the best admirals andgenerals weve got? Tell me that.--The Irish, for choice, retorted the cabby like Campbell, facial blemishesapart.--Thats right, the old tarpaulin corroborated. The Irish catholic peasant.Hes the backbone of our empire. You know Jem Mullins?While allowing him his individual opinions as everyman the keeperadded he cared nothing for any empire, ours or his, and considered noIrishman worthy of his salt that served it. Then they began to have a fewirascible words when it waxed hotter, both, needless to say, appealing to thelisteners who followed the passage of arms with interest so long as theydidnt indulge in recriminations and come to blows.From inside information extending over a series of years Mr Bloomwas rather inclined to poohpooh the suggestion as egregious balderdashfor, pending that consummation devoutly to be or not to be wished for, hewas fully cognisant of the fact that their neighbours across the channel,unless they were much bigger fools than he took them for, rather concealedtheir strength than the opposite. It was quite on a par with the quixotic ideain certain quarters that in a hundred million years the coal seam of thesister island would be played out and if, as time went on, that turned out tobe how the cat jumped all he could personally say on the matter was that as ahost of contingencies, equally relevant to the issue, might occur ere then itwas highly advisable in the interim to try to make the most of both countrieseven though poles apart. Another little interesting point, the amours ofwhores and chummies, to put it in common parlance, reminded him Irishsoldiers had as often fought for England as against her, more so, in fact.And now, why? So the scene between the pair of them, the licensee of theplace rumoured to be or have been Fitzharris, the famous invincible, andthe other, obviously bogus, reminded him forcibly as being on all fours withthe confidence trick, supposing, that is, it was prearranged as the lookeron,a student of the human soul if anything, the others seeing least of the game.And as for the lessee or keeper, who probably wasnt the other person at all,he (B.) couldnt help feeling and most properly it was better to give peoplelike that the goby unless you were a blithering idiot altogether and refuse tohave anything to do with them as a golden rule in private life and theirfelonsetting, there always being the offchance of a Dannyman comingforward and turning queens evidence or kings now like Denis or PeterCarey, an idea he utterly repudiated. Quite apart from that he dislikedthose careers of wrongdoing and crime on principle. Yet, though suchcriminal propensities had never been an inmate of his bosom in any shapeor form, he certainly did feel and no denying it (while inwardly remainingwhat he was) a certain kind of admiration for a man who had actuallybrandished a knife, cold steel, with the courage of his political convictions(though, personally, he would never be a party to any such thing), off thesame bat as those love vendettas of the south, have her or swing for her,when the husband frequently, after some words passed between the twoconcerning her relations with the other lucky mortal (he having had thepair watched), inflicted fatal injuries on his adored one as a result of analternative postnuptial liaison by plunging his knife into her, until it juststruck him that Fitz, nicknamed Skin-the, merely drove the car for the      ******************************~~actual perpetrators of the outrage and so was not, if he was reliablyinformed, actually party to the ambush which, in point of fact, was the pleasome legal luminary saved his skin on. In any case that was very ancienthistory by now and as for our friend, the pseudo Skin-the-etcetera, he hadtransparently outlived his welcome. He ought to have either died naturallyor on the scaffold high. Like actresses, always farewell positively lastperformance then come up smiling again. Generous to a fault of course,temperamental, no economising or any idea of the sort, always snapping atthe bone for the shadow. So similarly he had a very shrewd suspicion thatMr Johnny Lever got rid of some l s d. in the course of his perambulations                              ***~~round the docks in the congenial atmosphere of the Old Ireland tavern,come back to Erin and so on. Then as for the other he had heard not solong before the same identical lingo as he told Stephen how he simply buteffectually silenced the offender.--He took umbrage at something or other, that muchinjured but on thewhole eventempered person declared, I let slip. He called me a jew and in aheated fashion offensively. So I without deviating from plain facts in theleast told him his God, I mean Christ, was a jew too and all his family likeme though in reality Im not. That was one for him. A soft answer turnsaway wrath. He hadnt a word to say for himself as everyone saw. Am I notright? He turned a long you are wrong gaze on Stephen of timorous darkpride at the soft impeachment with a glance also of entreaty for he seemedto glean in a kind of a way that it wasnt all exactly. --Ex quibus, Stephen mumbled in a noncommittal accent, their two or foureyes conversing, Christus or Bloom his name is or after all any other,secundum carnem.--Of course, Mr B. proceeded to stipulate, you must look at both sides ofthe question. It is hard to lay down any hard and fast rules as to right andwrong but room for improvement all round there certainly is though everycountry, they say, our own distressful included, has the government itdeserves. But with a little goodwill all round. Its all very fine to boast ofmutual superiority but what about mutual equality. I resent violence andintolerance in any shape or form. It never reaches anything or stopsanything. A revolution must come on the due instalments plan. Its a patentabsurdity on the face of it to hate people because they live round the cornerand speak another vernacular, in the next house so to speak.--Memorable bloody bridge battle and seven minutes war, Stephenassented, between Skinners alley and Ormond market.Yes, Mr Bloom thoroughly agreed, entirely endorsing the remark, thatwas overwhelmingly right. And the whole world was full of that sort ofthing.--You just took the words out of my mouth, he said. A hocuspocus ofconflicting evidence that candidly you couldnt remotely ...All those wretched quarrels, in his humble opinion, stirring up badblood, from some bump of combativeness or gland of some kind,erroneously supposed to be about a punctilio of honour and a flag, werevery largely a question of the money question which was at the back ofeverything greed and jealousy, people never knowing when to stop.--They accuse, remarked he audibly.He turned away from the others who probably and spoke nearer to,so as the others in case they.--Jews, he softly imparted in an aside in Stephens ear, are accused ofruining. Not a vestige of truth in it, I can safely say. History, would you besurprised to learn, proves up to the hilt Spain decayed when the inquisitionhounded the jews out and England prospered when Cromwell, anuncommonly able ruffian who in other respects has much to answer for,imported them. Why? Because they are imbued with the proper spirit. Theyare practical and are proved to be so. I dont want to indulge in any becauseyou know the standard works on the subject and then orthodox as you are.But in the economic, not touching religion, domain the priest spells poverty.Spain again, you saw in the war, compared with goahead America. Turks.Its in the dogma. Because if they didnt believe theyd go straight to heavenwhen they die theyd try to live better, at least so I think. Thats thejuggle on which the p.ps raise the wind on false pretences. Im, he resumedwith dramatic force, as good an Irishman as that rude person I told you aboutat the outset and I want to see everyone, concluded he, all creeds and classespro rata having a comfortable tidysized income, in no niggard fashioneither, something in the neighbourhood of  pounds per annum. Thats thevital issue at stake and its feasible and would be provocative of friendlierintercourse between man and man. At least thats my idea for what itsworth. I call that patriotism. Ubi patria, as we learned a smattering of inour classical days in Alma Mater, vita bene. Where you can live well, thesense is, if you work.Over his untastable apology for a cup of coffee, listening to thissynopsis of things in general, Stephen stared at nothing in particular. Hecould hear, of course, all kinds of words changing colour like those crabsabout Ringsend in the morning burrowing quickly into all colours ofdifferent sorts of the same sand where they had a home somewhere beneathor seemed to. Then he looked up and saw the eyes that said or didnt say thewords the voice he heard said, if you work.--Count me out, he managed to remark, meaning work.The eyes were surprised at this observation because as he, the personwho owned them pro tem. observed or rather his voice speaking did, allmust work, have to, together.--I mean, of course, the other hastened to affirm, work in the widestpossible sense. Also literary labour not merely for the kudos of the thing.Writing for the newspapers which is the readiest channel nowadays. Thatswork too. Important work. After all, from the little I know of you, after allthe money expended on your education you are entitled to recoup yourselfand command your price. You have every bit as much right to live by yourpen in pursuit of your philosophy as the peasant has. What? You bothbelong to Ireland, the brain and the brawn. Each is equally important.--You suspect, Stephen retorted with a sort of a half laugh, that I may be important because I belong to the faubourg Saint Patrice called Irelandfor short.--I would go a step farther, Mr Bloom insinuated.--But I suspect, Stephen interrupted, that Ireland must be importantbecause it belongs to me.--What belongs, queried Mr Bloom bending, fancying he was perhapsunder some misapprehension. Excuse me. Unfortunately, I didnt catch thelatter portion. What was it you ...?Stephen, patently crosstempered, repeated and shoved aside his mugof coffee or whatever you like to call it none too politely, adding:  --We cant change the country. Let us change the subject.At this pertinent suggestion Mr Bloom, to change the subject, lookeddown but in a quandary, as he couldnt tell exactly what construction to puton belongs to which sounded rather a far cry. The rebuke of some kind wasclearer than the other part. Needless to say the fumes of his recent orgyspoke then with some asperity in a curious bitter way foreign to his soberstate. Probably the homelife to which Mr B attached the utmost importancehad not been all that was needful or he hadnt been familiarised with theright sort of people. With a touch of fear for the young man beside himwhom he furtively scrutinised with an air of some consternation remembering he had just come back from Paris, the eyes more especiallyreminding him forcibly of father and sister, failing to throw much light onthe subject, however, he brought to mind instances of cultured fellows thatpromised so brilliantly nipped in the bud of premature decay and nobody toblame but themselves. For instance there was the case of OCallaghan, forone, the halfcrazy faddist, respectably connected though of inadequatemeans, with his mad vagaries among whose other gay doings when rottoand making himself a nuisance to everybody all round he was in the habitof ostentatiously sporting in public a suit of brown paper (a fact). And thenthe usual denouement after the fun had gone on fast and furious he got landed into hot water and had to be spirited away by a few friends, after astrong hint to a blind horse from John Mallon of Lower Castle Yard, so asnot to be made amenable under section two of the criminal law amendmentact, certain names of those subpoenaed being handed in but not divulged forreasons which will occur to anyone with a pick of brains. Briefly, puttingtwo and two together, six sixteen which he pointedly turned a deaf ear to,Antonio and so forth, jockeys and esthetes and the tattoo which was all thego in the seventies or thereabouts even in the house of lords because early inlife the occupant of the throne, then heir apparent, the other members of theupper ten and other high personages simply following in the footsteps of thehead of the state, he reflected about the errors of notorieties and crownedheads running counter to morality such as the Cornwall case a number ofyears before under their veneer in a way scarcely intended by nature, athing good Mrs Grundy, as the law stands, was terribly down on thoughnot for the reason they thought they were probably whatever it was exceptwomen chiefly who were always fiddling more or less at one another itbeing largely a matter of dress and all the rest of it. Ladies who likedistinctive underclothing should, and every welltailored man must, trying tomake the gap wider between them by innuendo and give more of a genuinefilip to acts of impropriety between the two, she unbuttoned his and then heuntied her, mind the pin, whereas savages in the cannibal islands, say, atninety degrees in the shade not caring a continental. However, reverting tothe original, there were on the other hand others who had forced their wayto the top from the lowest rung by the aid of their bootstraps. Sheer force ofnatural genius, that. With brains, sir.For which and further reasons he felt it was his interest and duty evento wait on and profit by the unlookedfor occasion though why he could notexactly tell being as it was already several shillings to the bad having infact let himself in for it. Still to cultivate the acquaintance of someoneof no uncommon calibre who could provide food for reflection would amplyrepay any small. Intellectual stimulation, as such, was, he felt, from time totime a firstrate tonic for the mind. Added to which was the coincidence ofmeeting, discussion, dance, row, old salt of the here today and gonetomorrow type, night loafers, the whole galaxy of events, all went to makeup a miniature cameo of the world we live in especially as the lives of thesubmerged tenth, viz. coalminers, divers, scavengers etc., were very muchunder the microscope lately. To improve the shining hour he wonderedwhether he might meet with anything approaching the same luck as MrPhilip Beaufoy if taken down in writing suppose he were to pen somethingout of the common groove (as he fully intended doing) at the rate of oneguinea per column. My Experiences, let us say, in a Cabmans Shelter.The pink edition extra sporting of the Telegraph tell a graphic lie lay,as luck would have it, beside his elbow and as he was just puzzling again,far from satisfied, over a country belonging to him and the preceding rebusthe vessel came from Bridgwater and the postcard was addressed A. Boudinfind the captains age, his eyes went aimlessly over the respective captionswhich came under his special province the allembracing give us this day ourdaily press. First he got a bit of a start but it turned out to be onlysomething about somebody named H. du Boyes, agent for typewriters orsomething like that. Great battle, Tokio. Lovemaking in Irish,  poundsdamages. Gordon Bennett. Emigration Swindle. Letter from His Grace.William  . Ascot meeting, the Gold Cup. Victory of outsider Throwawayrecalls Derby of  when Capt. Marshalls dark horse Sir Hugo capturedthe blue ribband at long odds. New York disaster. Thousand lives lost. Footand Mouth. Funeral of the late Mr Patrick Dignam.So to change the subject he read about Dignam R. I. P. which, hereflected, was anything but a gay sendoff. Or a change of address anyway.--This morning (Hynes put it in of course) the remains of the late MrPatrick Dignam were removed from his residence, no  Newbridge Avenue,Sandymount, for interment in Glasnevin. The deceased gentleman was amost popular and genial personality in city life and his demise after a briefillness came as a great shock to citizens of all classes by whom he is deeplyregretted. The obsequies, at which many friends of the deceased were present,were carried out by (certainly Hynes wrote it with a nudge from Corny)Messrs H. J. ONeill and Son,  North Strand Road. The mournersincluded: Patk. Dignam (son), Bernard Corrigan (brother-in-law), Jno.Henry Menton, solr, Martin Cunningham, John Power, .)eatondph / adordorador douradora (must be where he called Monks the dayfather aboutKeyess ad) Thomas Kernan, Simon Dedalus, Stephen Dedalus B. ,., Edw.J. Lambert, Cornelius T. Kelleher, Joseph MC Hynes, L. Boom, CPMCoy,--Mlntosh and several others. Nettled not a little by L. Boom (as it incorrectly stated) and the lineof bitched type but tickled to death simultaneously by C. P. MCoy andStephen Dedalus B. A. who were conspicuous, needless to say, by theirtotal absence (to say nothing of MIntosh) L. Boom pointed it out to hiscompanion B. A. engaged in stifling another yawn, half nervousness, notforgetting the usual crop of nonsensical howlers of misprints.--Is that first epistle to the Hebrews, he asked as soon as his bottom jawwould let him, in? Text: open thy mouth and put thy foot in it.--It is. Really, Mr Bloom said (though first he fancied he alluded to thearchbishop till he added about foot and mouth with which there could beno possible connection) overjoyed to set his mind at rest and a bitflabbergasted at Myles Crawfords after all managing to. There.While the other was reading it on page two Boom (to give him for thenonce his new misnomer) whiled away a few odd leisure moments in fitsand starts with the account of the third event at Ascot on page three, hisside. Value  sovs with  sovs in specie added. For entire colts andfillies. Mr F. Alexanders Throwaway, b. h. by Rightaway-Thrale,  yrs, st  lbs (W. Lane) , lord Howard de Waldens Zinfandel (M. Cannon)z, Mr W. Basss Sceptre . Betting  to  on Zinfandel,  to I Throwaway(off). Sceptre a shade heavier,  to  on Zinfandel,  to I Throwaway(off). Throwaway and Zinfandel stood close order. It was anybodys racethen the rank outsider drew to the fore, got long lead, beating lord Howardde Waldens chestnut colt and Mr W. Basss bay filly Sceptre on a  / milecourse. Winner trained by Braime so that Lenehans version of the businesswas all pure buncombe. Secured the verdict cleverly by a length.  sovswith  in specie. Also ran: J de Bremonds (French horse Bantam Lyonswas anxiously inquiring after not in yet but expected any minute)Maximum II. Different ways of bringing off a coup. Lovemaking damages.Though that halfbaked Lyons ran off at a tangent in his impetuosity to getleft. Of course gambling eminently lent itself to that sort of thing though asthe event turned out the poor fool hadnt much reason to congratulatehimself on his pick, the forlorn hope. Guesswork it reduced itself toeventually.--There was every indication they would arrive at that, he, Bloom, said.--Who? the other, whose hand by the way was hurt, said.One morning you would open the paper, the cabman affirmed, andread: Return of Parnell. He bet them what they liked. A Dublin fusilier wasin that shelter one night and said he saw him in South Africa. Pride it waskilled him. He ought to have done away with himself or lain low for a timeafter committee room no  until he was his old self again with no-one topoint a finger at him. Then they would all to a man have gone down ontheir marrowbones to him to come back when he had recovered his senses.Dead he wasnt. Simply absconded somewhere. The coffin they broughtover was full of stones. He changed his name to De Wet, the Boer general.He made a mistake to fight the priests. And so forth and so on.All the same Bloom (properly so dubbed) was rather surprised at theirmemories for in nine cases out of ten it was a case of tarbarrels and notsingly but in their thousands and then complete oblivion because it wastwenty odd years. Highly unlikely of course there was even a shadow oftruth in the stones and, even supposing, he thought a return highlyinadvisable, all things considered. Something evidently riled them in hisdeath. Either he petered out too tamely of acute pneumonia just when hisvarious different political arrangements were nearing completion orwhether it transpired he owed his death to his having neglected to changehis boots and clothes-after a wetting when a cold resulted and failing toconsult a specialist he being confined to his room till he eventually died ofit amid widespread regret before a fortnight was at an end or quite possiblythey were distressed to find the job was taken out of their hands. Of coursenobody being acquainted with his movements even before there wasabsolutely no clue as to his whereabouts which were decidedly of the Alice,where art thou order even prior to his starting to go under several aliasessuch as Fox and Stewart so the remark which emanated from friend cabbymight be within the bounds of possibility. Naturally then it would prey onhis mind as a born leader of men which undoubtedly he was and acommanding figure, a sixfooter or at any rate five feet ten or eleven in hisstockinged feet, whereas Messrs So and So who, though they werent even apatch on the former man, ruled the roost after their redeeming featureswere very few and far between. It certainly pointed a moral, the idol withfeet of clay, and then seventytwo of his trusty henchmen rounding on himwith mutual mudslinging. And the identical same with murderers. You hadto come back. That haunting sense kind of drew you. To show theunderstudy in the title role how to. He saw him once on the auspiciousoccasion when they broke up the type in the Insuppressible or was it UnitedIreland, a privilege he keenly appreciated, and, in point of fact, handed himhis silk hat when it was knocked off and he said Thank you, excited as heundoubtedly was under his frigid exterior notwithstanding the littlemisadventure mentioned between the cup and the lip: whats bred in thebone. Still as regards return. You were a lucky dog if they didnt set theterrier at you directly you got back. Then a lot of shillyshally usuallyfollowed, Tom for and Dick and Harry against. And then, number one, youcame up against the man in possession and had to produce your credentialslike the claimant in the Tichborne case, Roger Charles Tichborne, Bellawas the boats name to the best of his recollection he, the heir, went down inas the evidence went to show and there was a tattoo mark too in Indian ink,lord Bellew was it, as he might very easily have picked up the details fromsome pal on board ship and then, when got up to tally with the descriptiongiven, introduce himself with: Excuse me, my name is So and So or somesuch commonplace remark. A more prudent course, as Bloom said to thenot over effusive, in fact like the distinguished personage under discussionbeside him, would have been to sound the lie of the land first.--That bitch, that English whore, did for him, the shebeen proprietorcommented. She put the first nail in his coffin.--Fine lump of a woman all the same, the soi-disant townclerk HenryCampbell remarked, and plenty of her. She loosened many a mans thighs. Iseen her picture in a barbers. The husband was a captain or an officer.--Ay, Skin-the-Goat amusingly added, he was and a cottonball one.This gratuitous contribution of a humorous character occasioned afair amount of laughter among his entourage. As regards Bloom he,without the faintest suspicion of a smile, merely gazed in the direction ofthe  door and reflected upon the historic story which had arousedextraordinary interest at the time when the facts, to make matters worse, weremade public with the usual affectionate letters that passed between them fullof sweet nothings. First it was strictly Platonic till nature intervened andan attachment sprang up between them till bit by bit matters came to a climaxand the matter became the talk of the town till the staggering blow came asa welcome intelligence to not a few evildisposed, however, who wereresolved upon encompassing his downfall though the thing was publicproperty all along though not to anything like the sensational extent that itsubsequently blossomed into. Since their names were coupled, though, sincehe was her declared favourite, where was the particular necessity toproclaim it to the rank and file from the housetops, the fact, namely, that hehad shared her bedroom which came out in the witnessbox on oath when athrill went through the packed court literally electrifying everybody in theshape of witnesses swearing to having witnessed him on such and such aparticular date in the act of scrambling out of an upstairs apartment withthe assistance of a ladder in night apparel, having gained admittance in thesame fashion, a fact the weeklies, addicted to the lubric a little, simplycoined shoals of money out of. Whereas the simple fact of the case was itwas simply a case of the husband not being up to the scratch, with nothingin common between them beyond the name, and then a real man arriving onthe scene, strong to the verge of weakness, falling a victim to her sirencharms and forgetting home ties, the usual sequel, to bask in the loved onessmiles. The eternal question of the life connubial, needless to say, croppedup. Can real love, supposing there happens to be another chap in the case,exist between married folk? Poser. Though it was no concern of theirsabsolutely if he regarded her with affection, carried away by a wave offolly. A magnificent specimen of manhood he was truly augmentedobviously by gifts of a high order, as compared with the other militarysupernumerary that is (who was just the usual everyday farewell, mygallant captain kind of an individual in the light dragoons, the lth hussarsto be accurate) and inflammable doubtless (the fallen leader, that is, not theother) in his own peculiar way which she of course, woman, quicklyperceived as highly likely to carve his way to fame which he almost bid fairto do till the priests and ministers of the gospel as a whole, his erstwhilestaunch adherents, and his beloved evicted tenants for whom he had doneyeoman service in the rural parts of the country by taking up the cudgels ontheir behalf in a way that exceeded their most sanguine expectations, veryeffectually cooked his matrimonial goose, thereby heaping coals of fire onhis head much in the same way as the fabled asss kick. Looking back nowin a retrospective kind of arrangement all seemed a kind of dream. Andthen coming back was the worst thing you ever did because it went withoutsaying you would feel out of place as things always moved with the times.Why, as he reflected, Irishtown strand, a locality he had not been in forquite a number of years looked different somehow since, as it happened, hewent to reside on the north side. North or south, however, it was just thewellknown case of hot passion, pure and simple, upsetting the applecartwith a vengeance and just bore out the very thing he was saying as she alsowas Spanish or half so, types that wouldnt do things by halves, passionateabandon of the south, casting every shred of decency to the winds.--Just bears out what I was saying, he, with glowing bosom said to Stephen,about blood and the sun. And, if I dont greatly mistake she was Spanishtoo.--The king of Spains daughter, Stephen answered, adding something orother rather muddled about farewell and adieu to you Spanish onions andthe first land called the Deadman and from Ramhead to Scilly was so andso many.--Was she? Bloom ejaculated, surprised though not astonished by anymeans, I never heard that rumour before. Possible, especially there, it wasas she lived there. So, Spain.Carefully avoiding a book in his pocket Sweets of, which remindedhim by the by of that Cap l street library book out of date, he took out hispocketbook and, turning over the various contents it contained rapidlyfinally he.--Do you consider, by the by, he said, thoughtfully selecting a faded photowhich he laid on the table, that a Spanish type?Stephen, obviously addressed, looked down on the photo showing alarge sized lady with her fleshy charms on evidence in an open fashion asshe was in the full bloom of womanhood in evening dress cut ostentatiouslylow for the occasion to give a liberal display of bosom, with more thanvision of breasts, her full lips parted and some perfect teeth, standing near,ostensibly with gravity, a piano on the rest of which was In Old Madrid, aballad, pretty in its way, which was then all the vogue. Her (the ladys)eyes, dark, large, looked at Stephen, about to smile about something to beadmired, Lafayette of Westmoreland street, Dublins premier photographicartist, being responsible for the esthetic execution.--Mrs Bloom, my wife the prima donna Madam Marion Tweedy, Bloomindicated. Taken a few years since. In or about ninety six. Very like herthen.Beside the young man he looked also at the photo of the lady now his legal wife who, he intimated, was the accomplished daughter of MajorBrian Tweedy and displayed at an early age remarkable proficiency as asinger having even made her bow to the public when her years numberedbarely sweet sixteen. As for the face it was a speaking likeness in expressionbut it did not do justice to her figure which came in for a lot of noticeusually and which did not come out to the best advantage in that getup. Shecould without difficulty, he said, have posed for the ensemble, not to dwellon certain opulent curves of the. He dwelt, being a bit of an artist in hisspare time, on the female form in general developmentally because, as it sohappened, no later than that afternoon he had seen those Grecian statues, perfectly developed as works of art, in the National Museum. Marble couldgive the original, shoulders, back, all the symmetry, all the rest. Yes,puritanisme, it does though Saint Josephs sovereign thievery alors(Bandez!) Figne toi trop. Whereas no photo could because it simply wasntart in a word.The spirit moving him he would much have liked to follow Jack Tarsgood example and leave the likeness there for a very few minutes to speakfor itself on the plea he so that the other could drink in the beauty forhimself, her stage presence being, frankly, a treat in itself which the cameracould not at all do justice to. But it was scarcely professional etiquette so.Though it was a warm pleasant sort of a night now yet wonderfully coolfor the season considering, for sunshine after storm. And he did feel a kindof need there and then to follow suit like a kind of inward voice and satisfya possible need by moving a motion. Nevertheless he sat tight just viewing theslightly soiled photo creased by opulent curves, none the worse for wearhowever, and looked away thoughtfully with the intention of not furtherincreasing the others possible embarrassment while gauging her symmetryof heaving embonpoint. In fact the slight soiling was only an added charmlike the case of linen slightly soiled, good as new, much better in fact withthe starch out. Suppose she was gone when he? I looked for the lamp whichshe told me came into his mind but merely as a passing fancy of his becausehe then recollected the morning littered bed etcetera and the book aboutRuby with met him pike hoses (sic) in it which must have fell downsufficiently appropriately beside the domestic chamberpot with apologies toLindley Murray.The vicinity of the young man he certainly relished, educated,distingue and impulsive into the bargain, far and away the pick of thebunch though you wouldnt think he had it in him yet you would. Besideshe said the picture was handsome which, say what you like, it was though atthe moment she was distinctly stouter. And why not? An awful lot ofmakebelieve went on about that sort of thing involving a lifelong slur withthe usual splash page of gutterpress about the same old matrimonial tanglealleging misconduct with professional golfer or the newest stage favouriteinstead of being honest and aboveboard about the whole business. Howthey were fated to meet and an attachment sprang up between the two sothat their names were coupled in the public eye was told in court with letterscontaining the habitual mushy and compromising expressions leaving noloophole to show that they openly cohabited two or three times a week atsome wellknown seaside hotel and relations, when the thing ran its normalcourse, became in due course intimate. Then the decree nisi and the Kingsproctor tries to show cause why and, he failing to quash it, nisi was madeabsolute. But as for that the two misdemeanants, wrapped up as they largelywere in one another, could safely afford to ignore it as they very largely didtill the matter was put in the hands of a solicitor who filed a petition forthe party wronged in due course. He, B, enjoyed the distinction of being closeto Erins uncrowned king in the flesh when the thing occurred on thehistoric fracas when the fallen leaders, who notoriously stuck to his guns tothe last drop even when clothed in the mantle of adultery, (leaders) trustyhenchmen to the number of ten or a dozen or possibly even more than thatpenetrated into the printing works of the Insuppressible or no it was UnitedIreland (a by no means by the by appropriate appellative) and broke up thetypecases with hammers or something like that all on account of somescurrilous effusions from the facile pens of the OBrienite scribes at theusual mudslinging occupation reflecting on the erstwhile tribunes privatemorals. Though palpably a radically altered man he was still a commandingfigure though carelessly garbed as usual with that look of settled purposewhich went a long way with the shillyshallyers till they discovered to theirvast discomfiture that their idol had feet of clay after placing him upon apedestal which she, however, was the first to perceive. As those wereparticularly hot times in the general hullaballoo Bloom sustained a minorinjury from a nasty prod of some chaps elbow in the crowd that of coursecongregated lodging some place about the pit of the stomach, fortunatelynot of a grave character. His hat (Parnells) a silk one was inadvertentlyknocked off and, as a matter of strict history, Bloom was the man whopicked it up in the crush after witnessing the occurrence meaning to returnit to him (and return it to him he did with the utmost celerity) who pantingand hatless and whose thoughts were miles away from his hat at the time allthe same being a gentleman born with a stake in the country he, as a matterof fact, having gone into it more for the kudos of the thing than anythingelse, whats bred in the bone instilled into him in infancy at his mothersknee in the shape of knowing what good form was came out at oncebecause he turned round to the donor and thanked him with perfectaplomb, saying: Thank you, sir, though in a very different tone of voicefrom the ornament of the legal profession whose headgear Bloom also set torights earlier in the course of the day, history repeating itself with adifference, after the burial of a mutual friend when they had left him alonein his glory after the grim task of having committed his remains to thegrave.On the other hand what incensed him more inwardly was the blatantjokes of the cabman and so on who passed it all off as a jest, laughing immoderately, pretending to understand everything, the why and thewherefore, and in reality not knowing their own minds, it being a case forthe two parties themselves unless it ensued that the legitimate husbandhappened to be a party to it owing to some anonymous letter from the usualboy Jones, who happened to come across them at the crucial moment in aloving position locked in one anothers arms, drawing attention to theirillicit proceedings and leading up to a domestic rumpus and the erring fairone begging forgiveness of her lord and master upon her knees andpromising to sever the connection and not receive his visits any more if onlythe aggrieved husband would overlook the matter and let bygones bebygones with tears in her eyes though possibly with her tongue in her faircheek at the same time as quite possibly there were several others. Hepersonally, being of a sceptical bias, believed and didnt make the smallestbones about saying so either that man or men in the plural were alwayshanging around on the waiting list about a lady, even supposing she was thebest wife in the world and they got on fairly well together for the sake ofargument, when, neglecting her duties, she chose to be tired of wedded lifeand was on for a little flutter in polite debauchery to press their attentionson her with improper intent, the upshot being that her affections centred onanother, the cause of many liaisons between still attractive married womengetting on for fair and forty and younger men, no doubt as several famouscases of feminine infatuation proved up to the hilt.It was a thousand pities a young fellow, blessed with an allowance ofbrains as his neighbour obviously was, should waste his valuable time withprofligate women who might present him with a nice dose to last him hislifetime. In the nature of single blessedness he would one day take untohimself a wife when Miss Right came on the scene but in the interim ladiessociety was a conditio sine qua non though he had the gravest possibledoubts, not that he wanted in the smallest to pump Stephen about MissFerguson (who was very possibly the particular lodestar who brought himdown to Irishtown so early in the morning), as to whether he would findmuch satisfaction basking in the boy and girl courtship idea and thecompany of smirking misses without a penny to their names bi or triweeklywith the orthodox preliminary canter of complimentplaying and walkingout leading up to fond lovers ways and flowers and chocs. To think of himhouse and homeless, rooked by some landlady worse than any stepmother,was really too bad at his age. The queer suddenly things he popped out withattracted the elder man who was several years the others senior or like hisfather but something substantial he certainly ought to eat even were it onlyan eggflip made on unadulterated maternal nutriment or, failing that, thehomely Humpty Dumpty boiled.--At what oclock did you dine? he questioned of the slim form and tiredthough unwrinkled face.--Some time yesterday, Stephen said.--Yesterday! exclaimed Bloom till he remembered it was already tomorrowFriday. Ah, you mean its after twelve!--The day before yesterday, Stephen said, improving on himself.Literally astounded at this piece of intelligence Bloom reflected.Though they didnt see eye to eye in everything a certain analogy theresomehow was as if both their minds were travelling, so to speak, in the onetrain of thought. At his age when dabbling in politics roughly some score ofyears previously when he had been a quasi aspirant to parliamentaryhonours in the Buckshot Foster days he too recollected in retrospect (whichwas a source of keen satisfaction in itself) he had a sneaking regard forthose same ultra ideas. For instance when the evicted tenants question, thenat its first inception, bulked largely in peoples mind though, it goeswithout saying, not contributing a copper or pinning his faith absolutely toits dictums, some of which wouldnt exactly hold water, he at the outset inprinciple at all events was in thorough sympathy with peasant possession asvoicing the trend of modern opinion (a partiality, however, which, realisinghis mistake, he was subsequently partially cured of) and even was twittedwith going a step farther than Michael Davitt in the striking views he at onetime inculcated as a backtothelander, which was one reason he stronglyresented the innuendo put upon him in so barefaced a fashion by our friendat the gathering of the clans in Barney Kiernans so that he, though oftenconsiderably misunderstood and the least pugnacious of mortals, be itrepeated, departed from his customary habit to give him (metaphorically)one in the gizzard though, so far as politics themselves were concerned, hewas only too conscious of the casualties invariably resulting frompropaganda and displays of mutual animosity and the misery and sufferingit entailed as a foregone conclusion on fine young fellows, chiefly,destruction of the fittest, in a word.Anyhow upon weighing up the pros and cons, getting on for one, as itwas, it was high time to be retiring for the night. The crux was it was a bitrisky to bring him home as eventualities might possibly ensue (somebodyhaving a temper of her own sometimes) and spoil the hash altogether as onthe night he misguidedly brought home a dog (breed unknown) with a lamepaw (not that the cases were either identical or the reverse though he hadhurt his hand too) to Ontario Terrace as he very distinctly remembered,having been there, so to speak. On the other hand it was altogether far andaway too late for the Sandymount or Sandycove suggestion so that he wasin some perplexity as to which of the two alternatives. Everything pointed tothe fact that it behoved him to avail himself to the full of the opportunity,all things considered. His initial impression was he was a shade standoffishor not over effusive but it grew on him someway. For one thing he mightntwhat you call jump at the idea, if approached, and what mostly worried himwas he didnt know how to lead up to it or word it exactly, supposing he didentertain the proposal, as it would afford him very great personal pleasure ifhe would allow him to help to put coin in his way or some wardrobe, iffound suitable. At all events he wound up by concluding, eschewing for thenonce hidebound precedent, a cup of Eppss cocoa and a shakedown forthe night plus the use of a rug or two and overcoat doubled into a pillow atleast he would be in safe hands and as warm as a toast on a trivet he failedto perceive any very vast amount of harm in that always with the proviso norumpus of any sort was kicked up. A move had to be made because thatmerry old soul, the grasswidower in question who appeared to be glued tothe spot, didnt appear in any particular hurry to wend his way home to hisdearly beloved Queenstown and it was highly likely some spongersbawdyhouse of retired beauties where age was no bar off Sheriff streetlower would be the best clue to that equivocal characters whereabouts for afew days to come, alternately racking their feelings (the mermaids) withsixchamber revolver anecdotes verging on the tropical calculated to freezethe marrow of anybodys bones and mauling their largesized charmsbetweenwhiles with rough and tumble gusto to the accompaniment of largepotations of potheen and the usual blarney about himself for as to who hein reality was let x equal my right name and address, as Mr Algebraremarks passim. At the same time he inwardly chuckled over his gentlerepartee to the blood and ouns champion about his god being a jew. Peoplecould put up with being bitten by a wolf but what properly riled them was abite from a sheep. The most vulnerable point too of tender Achilles. Yourgod was a jew. Because mostly they appeared to imagine he came fromCarrick-on-Shannon or somewhereabouts in the county Sligo.--I propose, our hero eventually suggested after mature reflection whileprudently pocketing her photo, as its rather stuffy here you just come homewith me and talk things over. My diggings are quite close in the vicinity.You cant drink that stuff. Do you like cocoa? Wait. Ill just pay this lot.The best plan clearly being to clear out, the remainder being plainsailing, he beckoned, while prudently pocketing the photo, to the keeper ofthe shanty who didnt seem to.--Yes, thats the best, he assured Stephen to whom for the matter of thatBrazen Head or him or anywhere else was all more or less.All kinds of Utopian plans were flashing through his (Bs) busy brain,education (the genuine article), literature, journalism, prize titbits, up todate billing, concert tours in English watering resorts packed with hydrosand seaside theatres, turning money away, duets in Italian with the accentperfectly true to nature and a quantity of other things, no necessity, ofcourse, to tell the world and his wife from the housetops about it, and aslice of luck. An opening was all was wanted. Because he more than suspectedhe had his fathers voice to bank his hopes on which it was quite on the cardshe had so it would be just as well, by the way no harm, to trail theconversation in the direction of that particular red herring just to.The cabby read out of the paper he had got hold of that the formerviceroy, earl Cadogan, had presided at the cabdrivers association dinner inLondon somewhere. Silence with a yawn or two accompanied this thrillingannouncement. Then the old specimen in the corner who appeared to havesome spark of vitality left read out that sir Anthony MacDonnell had leftEuston for the chief secretarys lodge or words to that effect. To whichabsorbing piece of intelligence echo answered why.--Give us a squint at that literature, grandfather, the ancient mariner putin, manifesting some natural impatience.--And welcome, answered the elderly party thus addressed.The sailor lugged out from a case he had a pair of greenish goggleswhich he very slowly hooked over his nose and both ears.--Are you bad in the eyes? the sympathetic personage like the townclerkqueried.--Why, answered the seafarer with the tartan beard, who seemingly was abit of a literary cove in his own small way, staring out of seagreen portholesas you might well describe them as, I uses goggles reading. Sand in the RedSea done that. One time I could read a book in the dark, manner ofspeaking. The Arabian Nights Entertainment was my favourite and Red asa Rose is She.Hereupon he pawed the journal open and pored upon Lord onlyknows what, found drowned or the exploits of King Willow, Iremongerhaving made a hundred and something second wicket not out for Notts,during which time (completely regardless of Ire) the keeper was intenselyoccupied loosening an apparently new or secondhand boot whichmanifestly pinched him as he muttered against whoever it was sold it, all ofthem who were sufficiently awake enough to be picked out by their facialexpressions, that is to say, either simply looking on glumly or passing atrivial remark.To cut a long story short Bloom, grasping the situation, was the firstto rise from his seat so as not to outstay their welcome having first andforemost, being as good as his word that he would foot the bill for theoccasion, taken the wise precaution to unobtrusively motion to mine host asa parting shot a scarcely perceptible sign when the others were not lookingto the effect that the amount due was forthcoming, making a grand total offourpence (the amount he deposited unobtrusively in four coppers, literallythe last of the Mohicans), he having previously spotted on the printedpricelist for all who ran to read opposite him in unmistakable figures, coffeed, confectionery do, and honestly well worth twice the money once in away, as Wetherup used to remark.--Come, he counselled to close the seance.Seeing that the ruse worked and the coast was clear they left theshelter or shanty together and the elite society of oilskin and companywhom nothing short of an earthquake would move out of their dolce farniente. Stephen, who confessed to still feeling poorly and fagged out,paused at the, for a moment, the door.--One thing I never understood, he said to be original on the spur of themoment. Why they put tables upside down at night, I mean chairs upsidedown, on the tables in cafes.To which impromptu the neverfailing Bloom replied without amoments hesitation, saying straight off:--To sweep the floor in the morning.So saying he skipped around, nimbly considering, frankly at the sametime apologetic to get on his companions right, a habit of his, by the bye,his right side being, in classical idiom, his tender Achilles. The night airwas certainly now a treat to breathe though Stephen was a bit weak onhis pins.--It will (the air) do you good, Bloom said, meaning also the walk, in amoment. The only thing is to walk then youll feel a different man. Come.Its not far. Lean on me.Accordingly he passed his left arm in Stephens right and led him onaccordingly.--Yes, Stephen said uncertainly because he thought he felt a strange kind offlesh of a different man approach him, sinewless and wobbly and all that.Anyhow they passed the sentrybox with stones, brazier etc. where themunicipal supernumerary, ex Gumley, was still to all intents and purposeswrapped in the arms of Murphy, as the adage has it, dreaming of freshfields and pastures new. And apropos of coffin of stones the analogy wasnot at all bad as it was in fact a stoning to death on the part of seventytwoout of eighty odd constituencies that ratted at the time of the split andchiefly the belauded peasant class, probably the selfsame evicted tenants hehad put in their holdings.So they turned on to chatting about music, a form of art for whichBloom, as a pure amateur, possessed the greatest love, as they made tracksarm in arm across Beresford place. Wagnerian music, though confessedlygrand in its way, was a bit too heavy for Bloom and hard to follow at thefirst go-off but the music of Mercadantes Huguenots, Meyerbeers SevenLast Words on the Cross and Mozarts Twelfth Mass he simply revelled in,the Gloria in that being, to his mind, the acme of first class music as such,literally knocking everything else into a cocked hat. He infinitely preferredthe sacred music of the catholic church to anything the opposite shop couldoffer in that line such as those Moody and Sankey hymns or Bid me to liveand I will live thy protestant to be. He also yielded to none in hisadmiration of Rossinis Stabat Mater, a work simply abounding inimmortal numbers, in which his wife, Madam Marion Tweedy, made a hit, averitable sensation, he might safely say, greatly adding to her other laureisand putting the others totally in the shade, in the jesuit fathers church inupper Gardiner street, the sacred edifice being thronged to the doors to hearher with virtuosos, or virtuosi rather. There was the unanimous opinionthat there was none to come up to her and suffice it to say in a place ofworship for music of a sacred character there was a generally voiced desirefor an encore. On the whole though favouring preferably light opera of theDon Giovanni description and Martha, a gem in its line, he had a penchant,though with only a surface knowledge, for the severe classical school suchas Mendelssohn. And talking of that, taking it for granted he knew all aboutthe old favourites, he mentioned par excellence Lionels air in Martha,Mappari, which, curiously enough, he had heard or overheard, to be moreaccurate, on yesterday, a privilege he keenly appreciated, from the lips ofStephens respected father, sung to perfection, a study of the number, infact, which made all the others take a back seat. Stephen, in reply to apolitely put query, said he didnt sing it but launched out into praises ofShakespeares songs, at least of in or about that period, the lutenistDowland who lived in Fetter lane near Gerard the herbalist, who annosludendo hausi, Doulandus, an instrument he was contemplating purchasingfrom Mr Arnold Dolmetsch, whom B. did not quite recall though the namecertainly sounded familiar, for sixtyfive guineas and Farnaby and son withtheir dux and comes conceits and Byrd (William) who played the virginals,he said, in the Queens chapel or anywhere else he found them and oneTomkins who made toys or airs and John Bull.On the roadway which they were approaching whilst still speakingbeyond the swingchains a horse, dragging a sweeper, paced on the pavenground, brushing a long swathe of mire up so that with the noise Bloomwas not perfectly certain whether he had caught aright the allusion tosixtyfive guineas and John Bull. He inquired if it was John Bull the politicalcelebrity of that ilk, as it struck him, the two identical names, as astriking coincidence.By the chains the horse slowly swerved to turn, which perceiving,Bloom, who was keeping a sharp lookout as usual, plucked the otherssleeve gently, jocosely remarking:--Our lives are in peril tonight. Beware of the steamroller.They thereupon stopped. Bloom looked at the head of a horse notworth anything like sixtyfive guineas, suddenly in evidence in the dark quitenear so that it seemed new, a different grouping of bones and even fleshbecause palpably it was a fourwalker, a hipshaker, a blackbuttocker, ataildangler, a headhanger putting his hind foot foremost the while the lordof his creation sat on the perch, busy with his thoughts. But such a goodpoor brute he was sorry he hadnt a lump of sugar but, as he wiselyreflected, you could scarcely be prepared for every emergency that mightcrop up. He was just a big nervous foolish noodly kind of a horse, withouta second care in the world. But even a dog, he reflected, take that mongrelin Barney Kiernans, of the same size, would be a holy horror to face. But itwas no animals fault in particular if he was built that way like the camel,ship of the desert, distilling grapes into potheen in his hump. Nine tenths ofthem all could be caged or trained, nothing beyond the art of man barringthe bees. Whale with a harpoon hairpin, alligator tickle the small of hisback and he sees the joke, chalk a circle for a rooster, tiger my eagle eye.These timely reflections anent the brutes of the field occupied his mindsomewhat distracted from Stephens words while the ship of the street wasmanoeuvring and Stephen went on about the highly interesting old.--Whats this I was saying? Ah, yes! My wife, he intimated, plunging inmedias res, would have the greatest of pleasure in making youracquaintance as she is passionately attached to music of any kind.He looked sideways in a friendly fashion at the sideface of Stephen,image of his mother, which was not quite the same as the usual handsomeblackguard type they unquestionably had an insatiable hankering after ashe was perhaps not that way built.Still, supposing he had his fathers gift as he more than suspected, itopened up new vistas in his mind such as Lady Fingalls Irish industries,concert on the preceding Monday, and aristocracy in general.Exquisite variations he was now describing on an air Youth here hasEnd by Jans Pieter Sweelinck, a Dutchman of Amsterdam where the frowscome from. Even more he liked an old German song of Johannes Jeepabout the clear sea and the voices of sirens, sweet murderers of men,which boggled Bloom a bit:Von der Sirenen ListigkeitTun die Poeten dichten.These opening bars he sang and translated extempore. Bloom,nodding, said he perfectly understood and begged him to go on by allmeans which he did.A phenomenally beautiful tenor voice like that, the rarest of boons,which Bloom appreciated at the very first note he got out, could easily, ifproperly handled by some recognised authority on voice production such asBarraclough and being able to read music into the bargain, command itsown price where baritones were ten a penny and procure for its fortunatepossessor in the near future an entree into fashionable houses in the bestresidential quarters of financial magnates in a large way of business andtitled people where with his university degree of B. A. (a huge ad in its way)and gentlemanly bearing to all the more influence the good impression hewould infallibly score a distinct success, being blessed with brains whichalso could be utilised for the purpose and other requisites, if his clotheswere properly attended to so as to the better worm his way into their goodgraces as he, a youthful tyro in--societys sartorial niceties, hardlyunderstood how a little thing like that could militate against you. It was infact only a matter of months and he could easily foresee him participatingin their musical and artistic conversaziones during the festivities of theChristmas season, for choice, causing a slight flutter in the dovecotes of thefair sex and being made a lot of by ladies out for sensation, cases of which,as he happened to know, were on record--in fact, without giving the showaway, he himself once upon a time, if he cared to, could easily have. Addedto which of course would be the pecuniary emolument by no mean.s to besneezed at, going hand in hand with his tuition fees. Not, he parenthesised,that for the sake of filthy lucre he need necessarily embrace the lyricplatform as a walk in life for any lengthy space of time. But a step in therequired direction it was beyond yea or nay and both monetarily andmentally it contained no reflection on his dignity in the smallest and itoften turned in uncommonly handy to be handed a cheque at a muchneededmoment when every little helped. Besides, though taste latterly haddeteriorated to a degree, original music like that, different from theconventional rut, would rapidly have a great vogue as it would be a decidednovelty for Dublins musical world after the usual hackneyed run of catchytenor solos foisted on a confiding public by Ivan St Austell and HiltonSt Just and their genus omne. Yes, beyond a shadow of a doubt he couldwith all the cards in his hand and he had a capital opening to make a namefor himself and win a high place in the citys esteem where he couldcommand a stiff figure and, booking ahead, give a grand concert for thepatrons of the King street house, given a backerup, if one were forthcomingto kick him upstairs, so to speak, a big if however, with some impetus of thegoahead sort to obviate the inevitable procrastination which often tripped-up a too much feted prince of good fellows. And it need not detract fromthe other by one iota as, being his own master, he would have heaps of timeto practise literature in his spare moments when desirous of so doingwithout its clashing with his vocal career or containing anything derogatorywhatsoever as it was a matter for himself alone. In fact, he had the ball athis feet and that was the very reason why the other, possessed of aremarkably sharp nose for smelling a rat of any sort, hung on to him at all.The horse was just then. And later on at a propitious opportunity hepurposed (Bloom did), without anyway prying into his private affairs on thefools step in where angels principle, advising him to sever his connectionwith a certain budding practitioner who, he noticed, was prone to disparageand even to a slight extent with some hilarious pretext when not present,deprecate him, or whatever you like to call it which in Blooms humbleopinion threw a nasty sidelight on that side of a persons character, no punintended.The horse having reached the end of his tether, so to speak, haltedand, rearing high a proud feathering tail, added his quota by letting fall onthe floor which the brush would soon brush up and polish, three smokingglobes of turds. Slowly three times, one after another, from a full crupper hemired. And humanely his driver waited till he (or she) had ended, patient inhis scythed car.Side by side Bloom, profiting by the contretemps, with Stephen passedthrough the gap of the chains, divided by the upright, and, stepping over astrand of mire, went across towards Gardiner street lower, Stephen singingmore boldly, but not loudly, the end of the ballad.Und alle Schiffe brucken.The driver never said a word, good, bad or indifferent, but merelywatched the two figures, as he sat on his lowbacked car, both black, onefull, one lean, walk towards the railway bridge, to be married by FatherMaher. As they walked they at times stopped and walked again continuingtheir tete-a-tete (which, of course, he was utterly out of) about sirensenemies of mans reason, mingled with a number of other topics of the samecategory, usurpers, historical cases of the kind while the man in the sweepercar or you might as well call it in the sleeper car who in any case couldntpossibly hear because they were too far simply sat in his seat near the end oflower Gardiner street and looked after their lowbacked car.What parallel courses did Bloom and Stephen follow returning?Starting united both at normal walking pace from Beresford place theyfollowed in the order named Lower and Middle Gardiner streets andMountjoy square, west: then, at reduced pace, each bearing left, Gardinersplace by an inadvertence as far as the farther corner of Temple street: then,at reduced pace with interruptions of halt, bearing right, Temple street,north, as far as Hardwicke place. Approaching, disparate, at relaxedwalking pace they crossed both the circus before Georges churchdiametrically, the chord in any circle being less than the arc which itsubtends.Of what did the duumvirate deliberate during their itinerary?Music, literature, Ireland, Dublin, Paris, friendship, woman, prostitution,diet, the influence of gaslight or the light of arc and glowlamps on thegrowth of adjoining paraheliotropic trees, exposed corporation emergencydustbuckets, the Roman catholic church, ecclesiastical celibacy, the Irishnation, jesuit education, careers, the study of medicine, the past day, themaleficent influence of the presabbath, Stephens collapse.Did Bloom discover common factors of similarity between their respectivelike and unlike reactions to experience?Both were sensitive to artistic impressions, musical in preference to plasticor pictorial. Both preferred a continental to an insular manner of life, acisatlantic to a transatlantic place of residence. Both indurated by earlydomestic training and an inherited tenacity of heterodox resistanceprofessed their disbelief in many orthodox religious, national, social andethical doctrines. Both admitted the alternately stimulating and obtundinginfluence of heterosexual magnetism.Were their views on some points divergent?Stephen dissented openly from Blooms views on the importance of dietaryand civic selfhelp while Bloom dissented tacitly from Stephens views on theeternal affirmation of the spirit of man in literature. Bloom assentedcovertly to Stephens rectification of the anachronism involved in assigningthe date of the conversion of the Irish nation to christianity from druidismby Patrick son of Calpornus, son of Potitus, son of Odyssus, sent by popeCelestine I in the year  in the reign of Leary to the year  orthereabouts in the reign of Cormac MacArt (   A.D.), suffocated byimperfect deglutition of aliment at Sletty and interred at Rossnaree. Thecollapse which Bloom ascribed to gastric inanition and certain chemicalcompounds of varying degrees of adulteration and alcoholic strength,accelerated by mental exertion and the velocity of rapid circular motion in arelaxing atmosphere, Stephen attributed to the reapparition of a matutinalcloud (perceived by both from two different points of observationSandycove and Dublin) at first no bigger than a womans hand.Was there one point on which their views were equal and negative?The influence of gaslight or electric light on the growth of adjoiningparaheliotropic trees.Had Bloom discussed similar subjects during nocturnal perambulations inthe past?In  with Owen Goldberg and Cecil Turnbull at night on publicthoroughfares between Longwood avenue and Leonards corner andLeonards corner and Synge street and Synge street and Bloomfield avenue.In  with Percy Apjohn in the evenings, reclined against the wallbetween Gibraltar villa and Bloomfield house in Crumlin, barony ofUppercross. In  occasionally with casual acquaintances andprospective purchasers on doorsteps, in front parlours, in third classrailway carriages of suburban lines. In  frequently with major BrianTweedy and his daughter Miss Marion Tweedy, together and separately onthe lounge in Matthew Dillons house in Roundtown. Once in  andonce in  with Julius (Juda) Mastiansky, on both occasions in theparlour of his (Blooms) house in Lombard street, west.What reflection concerning the irregular sequence of dates , ,, , , ,  did Bloom make before their arrival at theirdestination?He reflected that the progressive extension of the field of individualdevelopment and experience was regressively accompanied by a restrictionof the converse domain of interindividual relations.As in what ways?From inexistence to existence he came to many and was as one received:existence with existence he was with any as any with any: from existenceto nonexistence gone he would be by all as none perceived.What act did Bloom make on their arrival at their destination?At the housesteps of the th Of the equidifferent uneven numbers, number Eccles street, he inserted his hand mechanically into the back pocket ofhis trousers to obtain his latchkey.Was it there?It was in the corresponding pocket of the trousers which he had worn onthe day but one preceding.Why was he doubly irritated?Because he had forgotten and because he remembered that he had remindedhimself twice not to forget.What were then the alternatives before the, premeditatedly (respectively)and inadvertently, keyless couple?To enter or not to enter. To knock or not to knock.Blooms decision?A stratagem. Resting his feet on the dwarf wall, he climbed over the arearailings, compressed his hat on his head, grasped two points at the lowerunion of rails and stiles, lowered his body gradually by its length offive feet nine inches and a half to within two feet ten inches of thearea pavement and allowed his body to move freely in space by separatinghimself from the railings and crouching in preparation for the impact ofthe fall.Did he fall?By his bodys known weight of eleven stone and four pounds in avoirdupoismeasure, as certified by the graduated machine for periodical selfweighingin the premises of Francis Froedman, pharmaceutical chemist of Frederick street, north, on the last feast of the Ascension, to wit, thetwelfth day of May of the bissextile year one thousand nine hundred andfour of the christian era (jewish era five thousand six hundred andsixtyfour, mohammadan era one thousand three hundred and twentytwo),golden number , epact , solar cycle , dominical letters C B, Romanindiction , Julian period , MCMIV.Did he rise uninjured by concussion?Regaining new stable equilibrium he rose uninjured though concussed bythe impact, raised the latch of the area door by the exertion of force at itsfreely moving flange and by leverage of the first kind applied at its fulcrum,gained retarded access to the kitchen through the subadjacent scullery,ignited a lucifer match by friction, set free inflammable coal gas byturningon the ventcock, lit a high flame which, by regulating, he reduced toquiescent candescence and lit finally a portable candle.What discrete succession of images did Stephen meanwhile perceive?Reclined against the area railings he perceived through the transparentkitchen panes a man regulating a gasflame of  CP, a man lighting acandle of  CP, a man removing in turn each of his two boots, a manleaving the kitchen holding a candle.Did the man reappear elsewhere?After a lapse of four minutes the glimmer of his candle was discerniblethrough the semitransparent semicircular glass fanlight over the halldoor.The halldoor turned gradually on its hinges. In the open space of thedoorway the man reappeared without his hat, with his candle.Did Stephen obey his sign?Yes, entering softly, he helped to close and chain the door and followedsoftly along the hallway the mans back and listed feet and lighted candlepast a lighted crevice of doorway on the left and carefully down a turningstaircase of more than five steps into the kitchen of Blooms house.What did Bloom do?He extinguished the candle by a sharp expiration of breath upon its flame,drew two spoonseat deal chairs to the hearthstone, one for Stephen with itsback to the area window, the other for himself when necessary, knelt on oneknee, composed in the grate a pyre of crosslaid resintipped sticks andvarious coloured papers and irregular polygons of best Abram coal attwentyone shillings a ton from the yard of Messrs Flower and MDonald of DOlier street, kindled it at three projecting points of paper with oneignited lucifer match, thereby releasing the potential energy contained in thefuel by allowing its carbon and hydrogen elements to enter into free unionwith the oxygen of the air.Of what similar apparitions did Stephen think?Of others elsewhere in other times who, kneeling on one knee or on two,had kindled fires for him, of Brother Michael in the infirmary of the collegeof the Society of Jesus at Clongowes Wood, Sallins, in the county ofKildare: of his father, Simon Dedalus, in an unfurnished room of his firstresidence in Dublin, number thirteen Fitzgibbon street: of his godmotherMiss Kate Morkan in the house of her dying sister Miss Julia Morkan at Ushers Island: of his aunt Sara, wife of Richie (Richard) Goulding, in thekitchen of their lodgings at  Clanbrassil street: of his mother Mary, wifeof Simon Dedalus, in the kitchen of number twelve North Richmond streeton the morning of the feast of Saint Francis Xavier : of the dean ofstudies, Father Butt, in the physics theatre of university College, Stephens Green, north: of his sister Dilly (Delia) in his fathers house inCabra.What did Stephen see on raising his gaze to the height of a yard from thefire towards the opposite wall?Under a row of five coiled spring housebells a curvilinear rope, stretchedbetween two holdfasts athwart across the recess beside the chimney pier,from which hung four smallsized square handkerchiefs folded unattachedconsecutively in adjacent rectangles and one pair of ladies grey hose withLisle suspender tops and feet in their habitual position clamped by threeerect wooden pegs two at their outer extremities and the third at their pointof junction.What did Bloom see on the range?On the right (smaller) hob a blue enamelled saucepan: on the left (larger)hob a black iron kettle.What did Bloom do at the range?He removed the saucepan to the left hob, rose and carried the iron kettle tothe sink in order to tap the current by turning the faucet to let it flow.Did it flow?Yes. From Roundwood reservoir in county Wicklow of a cubic capacity of million gallons, percolating through a subterranean aqueduct of filtermains of single and double pipeage constructed at an initial plant cost of pounds per linear yard by way of the Dargle, Rathdown, Glen of the Downs andCallowhill to the  acre reservoir at Stillorgan, a distance of  statutemiles, and thence, through a system of relieving tanks, by a gradient of feet to the city boundary at Eustace bridge, upper Leeson street, thoughfrom prolonged summer drouth and daily supply of  million gallons the***************************************************~~water had fallen below the sill of the overflow weir for which reason theborough surveyor and waterworks engineer, Mr Spencer Harty, C. E., onthe instructions of the waterworks committee had prohibited the use ofmunicipal water for purposes other than those of consumption (envisagingthe possibility of recourse being had to the impotable water of the Grandand Royal canals as in ) particularly as the South Dublin Guardians,notwithstanding their ration of  gallons per day per pauper suppliedthrough a  inch meter, had been convicted of a wastage of , gallonsper night by a reading of their meter on the affirmation of the law agent ofthe corporation, Mr Ignatius Rice, solicitor, thereby acting to the detrimentof another section of the public, selfsupporting taxpayers, solvent, sound.What in water did Bloom, waterlover, drawer of water, watercarrier,returning to the range, admire?Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy to its nature inseeking its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercators projection: itsunplumbed profundity in the Sundam trench of the Pacific exceeding fathoms: the restlessness of its waves and surface particles visiting in turnall points of its seaboard: the independence of its units: the variability ofstates of sea: its hydrostatic quiescence in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidityin neap and spring tides: its subsidence after devastation: its sterility inthe circumpolar icecaps, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercialsignificance: its preponderance of  to  over the dry land of the globe: itsindisputable hegemony extending in square leagues over all the regionbelow the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of itsprimeval basin: its luteofulvous bed: its capacity to dissolve and hold insolution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the mostprecious metals: its slow erosions of peninsulas and islands, its persistentformation of homothetic islands, peninsulas and downwardtendingpromontories: its alluvial deposits: its weight and volume and density: itsimperturbability in lagoons and highland tarns: its gradation of coloursin the torrid and temperate and frigid zones: its vehicular ramifications incontinental lakecontained streams and confluent oceanflowing rivers withtheir tributaries and transoceanic currents, gulfstream, north and southequatorial courses: its violence in seaquakes, waterspouts, Artesian wells,eruptions, torrents, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds,waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations,deluges, cloudbursts: its vast circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: itssecrecy in springs and latent humidity, revealed by rhabdomantic orhygrometric instruments and exemplified by the well by the hole in thewall at Ashtown gate, saturation of air, distillation of dew: thesimplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen withone constituent part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancyin the waters of the Dead Sea: its persevering penetrativenessin runnels, gullies, inadequate dams, leaks on shipboard: its propertiesfor cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation: itsinfallibility as paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses as vapour, mist,cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its varietyof forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons andatolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidalestuaries and arms of sea: its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, icefloes: itsdocility in working hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, electric powerstations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its utility in canals,rivers, if navigable, floating and graving docks: its potentialityderivable from harnessed tides or watercourses falling from level tolevel: its submarine fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobe),numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the globe: its ubiquityas constituting  percent of the human body: the noxiousness of itseffluvia in lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, faded flowerwater,stagnant pools in the waning moon.Having set the halffilled kettle on the now burning coals, why did hereturn to the stillflowing tap?To wash his soiled hands with a partially consumed tablet of Barringtonslemonflavoured soap, to which paper still adhered, (bought thirteen hourspreviously for fourpence and still unpaid for), in fresh coldneverchanging everchanging water and dry them, face and hands, in a longredbordered holland cloth passed over a wooden revolving roller.What reason did Stephen give for declining Blooms offer?That he was hydrophobe, hating partial contact by immersion or total bysubmersion in cold water, (his last bath having taken place in the monthof October of the preceding year), disliking the aqueous substances ofglass and crystal, distrusting aquacities of thought and language.What impeded Bloom from giving Stephen counsels of hygiene andprophylactic to which should be added suggestions concerning apreliminary wetting of the head and contraction of the muscles with rapidsplashing of the face and neck and thoracic and epigastric region in case ofsea or river bathing, the parts of the human anatomy most sensitive to coldbeing the nape, stomach and thenar or sole of foot?The incompatibility of aquacity with the erratic originality of genius.What additional didactic counsels did he similarly repress?Dietary: concerning the respective percentage of protein and caloric energyin bacon, salt ling and butter, the absence of the former in the lastnamedand the abundance of the latter in the firstnamed.Which seemed to the host to be the predominant qualities of his guest?Confidence in himself, an equal and opposite power of abandonment andrecuperation.What concomitant phenomenon took place in the vessel of liquid by theagency of fire?The phenomenon of ebullition. Fanned by a constant updraught ofventilation between the kitchen and the chimneyflue, ignition wascommunicated from the faggots of precombustible fuel to polyhedralmasses of bituminous coal, containing in compressed mineral form thefoliated fossilised decidua of primeval forests which had in turn derivedtheir vegetative existence from the sun, primal source of heat (radiant),transmitted through omnipresent luminiferous diathermanous ether. Heat(convected), a mode of motion developed by such combustion, wasconstantly and increasingly conveyed from the source of calorification tothe liquid contained in the vessel, being radiated through the unevenunpolished dark surface of the metal iron, in part reflected, in partabsorbed, in part transmitted, gradually raising the temperature of thewater from normal to boiling point, a rise in temperature expressible as theresult of an expenditure of  thermal units needed to raise  pound ofwater from  degrees to  degrees Fahrenheit.What announced the accomplishment of this rise in temperature?A double falciform ejection of water vapour from under the kettlelid at bothsides simultaneously.For what personal purpose could Bloom have applied the water so boiled?To shave himself.What advantages attended shaving by night?A softer beard: a softer brush if intentionally allowed to remain from shaveto shave in its agglutinated lather: a softer skin if unexpectedlyencountering female acquaintances in remote places at incustomary hours:quiet reflections upon the course of the day: a cleaner sensation whenawaking after a fresher sleep since matutinal noises, premonitions andperturbations, a clattered milkcan, a postmans double knock, a paper read,reread while lathering, relathering the same spot, a shock, a shoot, withthought of aught he sought though fraught with nought might cause afaster rate of shaving and a nick on which incision plaster with precisioncut and humected and applied adhered: which was to be done.Why did absence of light disturb him less than presence of noise?Because of the surety of the sense of touch in his firm full masculinefeminine passive active hand.What quality did it (his hand) possess but with what counteractinginfluence?The operative surgical quality but that he was reluctant to shed humanblood even when the end justified the means, preferring, in their naturalorder, heliotherapy, psychophysicotherapeutics, osteopathic surgery.What lay under exposure on the lower, middle and upper shelves of thekitchen dresser, opened by Bloom?On the lower shelf five vertical breakfast plates, six horizontal breakfastsaucers on which rested inverted breakfast cups, a moustachecup,uninverted, and saucer of Crown Derby, four white goldrimmed eggcups,an open shammy purse displaying coins, mostly copper, and a phial ofaromatic (violet) comfits. On the middle shelf a chipped eggcup containingpepper, a drum of table salt, four conglomerated black olives in oleaginouspaper, an empty pot of Plumtrees potted meat, an oval wicker basketbedded with fibre and containing one Jersey pear, a halfempty bottle ofWilliam Gilbey and Cos white invalid port, half disrobed of its swathe ofcoralpink tissue paper, a packet of Eppss soluble cocoa, five ounces ofAnne Lynchs choice tea at /- per lb in a crinkled leadpaper bag, acylindrical canister containing the best crystallised lump sugar, two onions,one, the larger, Spanish, entire, the other, smaller, Irish, bisected withaugmented surface and more redolent, a jar of Irish Model Dairys cream, ajug of brown crockery containing a naggin and a quarter of souredadulterated milk, converted by heat into water, acidulous serum andsemisolidified curds, which added to the quantity subtracted for MrBlooms and Mrs Flemings breakfasts, made one imperial pint, the totalquantity originally delivered, two cloves, a halfpenny and a small dishcontaining a slice of fresh ribsteak. On the upper shelf a battery of jamjars(empty) of various sizes and proveniences.What attracted his attention lying on the apron of the dresser?Four polygonal fragments of two lacerated scarlet betting tickets, numbered ,  .What reminiscences temporarily corrugated his brow?Reminiscences of coincidences, truth stranger than fiction, preindicative ofthe result of the Gold Cup flat handicap, the official and definitive resultof which he had read in the Evening Telegraph, late pink edition, in thecabmans shelter, at Butt bridge.Where had previous intimations of the result, effected or projected, beenreceived by him?In Bernard Kiernans licensed premises ,  and  little Britain street: inDavid Byrnes licensed premises,  Duke street: in OConnell street lower,outside Graham Lemons when a dark man had placed in his hand athrowaway (subsequently thrown away), advertising Elijah, restorer of thechurch in Zion: in Lincoln place outside the premises of F. W. Sweny andCo (Limited), dispensing chemists, when, when Frederick M. (Bantam)Lyons had rapidly and successively requested, perused and restituted thecopy of the current issue of the Freemans Journal and National Presswhich he had been about to throw away (subsequently thrown away), hehad proceeded towards the oriental edifice of the Turkish and Warm Baths, Leinster street, with the light of inspiration shining in his countenanceand bearing in his arms the secret of the race, graven in the language ofprediction.What qualifying considerations allayed his perturbations?The difficulties of interpretation since the significance of any eventfollowed its occurrence as variably as the acoustic report followed theelectrical discharge and of counterestimating against an actual loss byfailure to interpret the total sum of possible losses proceedingoriginally from a successful interpretation.His mood?He had not risked, he did not expect, he had not been disappointed, he wassatisfied.What satisfied him?To have sustained no positive loss. To have brought a positive gain toothers. Light to the gentiles.How did Bloom prepare a collation for a gentile?He poured into two teacups two level spoonfuls, four in all, of Eppsssoluble cocoa and proceeded according to the directions for use printed onthe label, to each adding after sufficient time for infusion the prescribedingredients for diffusion in the manner and in the quantity prescribed.What supererogatory marks of special hospitality did the host show hisguest?Relinquishing his symposiarchal right to the moustache cup of imitationCrown Derby presented to him by his only daughter, Millicent (Milly), hesubstituted a cup identical with that of his guest and served extraordinarilyto his guest and, in reduced measure, to himself the viscous creamordinarily reserved for the breakfast of his wife Marion (Molly).Was the guest conscious of and did he acknowledge these marks ofhospitality?His attention was directed to them by his host jocosely, and he acceptedthem seriously as they drank in jocoserious silence Eppss massproduct, thecreature cocoa.Were there marks of hospitality which he contemplated but suppressed,reserving them for another and for himself on future occasions to completethe act begun?The reparation of a fissure of the length of  inches in the right***********************************************~~side of his guests jacket. A gift to his guest of one of the fourladys handkerchiefs, if and when ascertained to be in a presentablecondition. Who drank more quickly?Bloom, having the advantage of ten seconds at the initiation and taking,from the concave surface of a spoon along the handle of which a steadyflow of heat was conducted, three sips to his opponents one, six to two,nine to three.What cerebration accompanied his frequentative act?Concluding by inspection but erroneously that his silent companion wasengaged in mental composition he reflected on the pleasures derived fromliterature of instruction rather than of amusement as he himself hadapplied to the works of William Shakespeare more than once for thesolution of difficult problems in imaginary or real life.Had he found their solution?In spite of careful and repeated reading of certain classical passages,aided by a glossary, he had derived imperfect conviction from the text,the answers not bearing in all points.What lines concluded his first piece of original verse written by him,potential poet, at the age of  in  on the occasion of the offeringof three prizes of /-, /- and / respectively for competition by theShamrock, a weekly newspaper?An ambition to squintAt my verses in printMakes me hope that for these youll find room?.If you so condescendThen please place at the endThe name of yours truly, L. Bloom.Did he find four separating forces between his temporary guest and him?Name, age, race, creed.What anagrams had he made on his name in youth?Leopold BloomEllpodbomoolMolldopeloobBollopedoomOld Ollebo, M. P.What acrostic upon the abbreviation of his first name had he (kinetic poet)sent to Miss Marion (Molly) Tweedy on the  February ?Poets oft have sung in rhymeOf music sweet their praise divine.Let them hymn it nine times nine.Dearer far than song or wine.You are mine. The world is mine.What had prevented him from completing a topical song (music by R. G.Johnston) on the events of the past, or fixtures for the actual, years,entitled If Brian Boru could but come back and see old Dublin now,commissioned by Michael Gunn, lessee of the Gaiety Theatre, , , , South King street, and to be introduced into the sixth scene, the valleyof diamonds, of the second edition ( January ) of the grandannual Christmas pantomime Sinbad the Sailor (produced by R Shelton December , written by Greenleaf Whittier, scenery byGeorge A. Jackson and Cecil Hicks, costumes by Mrs and Miss Whelanunder the personal supervision of Mrs Michael Gunn, ballets byJessie Noir, harlequinade by Thomas Otto) and sung by Nelly Bouverist,principal girl?Firstly, oscillation between events of imperial and of local interest, theanticipated diamond jubilee of Queen Victoria (born , acceded )and the posticipated opening of the new municipal fish market: secondly,apprehension of opposition from extreme circles on the questions of therespective visits of Their Royal Highnesses the duke and duchess of York(real) and of His Majesty King Brian Boru (imaginary): thirdly, a conflictbetween professional etiquette and professional emulation concerning therecent erections of the Grand Lyric Hall on Burgh Quay and the TheatreRoyal in Hawkins street: fourthly, distraction resultant from compassionfor Nelly Bouverists non-intellectual, non-political, non-topical expressionof countenance and concupiscence caused by Nelly Bouverists revelationsof white articles of non-intellectual, non-political, non-topicalunderclothing while she (Nelly Bouverist) was in the articles: fifthly, thedifficulties of the selection of appropriate music and humorous allusionsfrom Everybodys Book of Jokes ( pages and a laugh in every one):sixthly, the rhymes, homophonous and cacophonous, associated with thenames of the new lord mayor, Daniel Tallon, the new high sheriff, ThomasPile and the new solicitorgeneral, Dunbar Plunket Barton.What relation existed between their ages? years before in  when Bloom was of Stephens present age Stephenwas .  years after in  when Stephen would be of Blooms present ageBloom would be . In  when Bloom would be  and Stephen  theirages initially in the ratio of  to  would be as  to , the proportion****************************************************~~    ~~increasing and the disparity diminishing according as arbitrary future yearswere added, for if the proportion existing in  had continued immutable,conceiving that to be possible, till then  when Stephen was  Bloomwould be  and in  when Stephen would be , as Bloom then was,Bloom would be  while in  when Stephen would have attained themaximum postdiluvian age of  Bloom, being  years alive having beenborn in the year , would have surpassed by  years the maximumantediluvian age, that of Methusalah,  years, while, if Stephen wouldcontinue to live until he would attain that age in the year  A.D., Bloomwould have been obliged to have been alive , years, having beenobliged to have been born in the year , B.C.What events might nullify these calculations?The cessation of existence of both or either, the inauguration of a new eraor calendar, the annihilation of the world and consequent extermination ofthe human species, inevitable but impredictable.How many previous encounters proved their preexisting acquaintance?Two. The first in the lilacgarden of Matthew Dillons house, Medina Villa,Kimmage road, Roundtown, in , in the company of Stephens mother,Stephen being then of the age of  and reluctant to give his hand insalutation. The second in the coffeeroom of Breslins hotel on a rainySunday in the January of , in the company of Stephens father andStephens granduncle, Stephen being then  years older.Did Bloom accept the invitation to dinner given then by the son andafterwards seconded by the father?Very gratefully, with grateful appreciation, with sincere appreciativegratitude, in appreciatively grateful sincerity of regret, he declined.Did their conversation on the subject of these reminiscences reveal a thirdconnecting link between them?Mrs Riordan (Dante), a widow of independent means, had resided in thehouse of Stephens parents from  September  to  December and had also resided during the years ,  and  in the City ArmsHotel owned by Elizabeth ODowd of  Prussia street where, during partsof the years  and , she had been a constant informant of Bloomwho resided also in the same hotel, being at that time a clerk in theemployment of Joseph Cuffe of  Smithfield for the superintendence of salesin the adjacent Dublin Cattle market on the North Circular road.Had he performed any special corporal work of mercy for her?He had sometimes propelled her on warm summer evenings, an infirmwidow of independent, if limited, means, in her convalescent bathchair withslow revolutions of its wheels as far as the corner of the North Circularroad opposite Mr Gavin Lows place of business where she had remainedfor a certain time scanning through his onelensed binocular fieldglassesunrecognisable citizens on tramcars, roadster bicycles equipped withinflated pneumatic tyres, hackney carriages, tandems, private and hiredlandaus, dogcarts, ponytraps and brakes passing from the city to thePhoenix Park and vice versa.Why could he then support that his vigil with the greater equanimity?Because in middle youth he had often sat observing through a rondel ofbossed glass of a multicoloured pane the spectacle offered with continualchanges of the thoroughfare without, pedestrians, quadrupeds, velocipedes,vehicles, passing slowly, quickly, evenly, round and round and round therim of a round and round precipitous globe.What distinct different memories had each of her now eight years deceased?The older, her bezique cards and counters, her Skye terrier, hersuppositious wealth, her lapses of responsiveness and incipient catarrhaldeafness: the younger, her lamp of colza oil before the statue of theImmaculate Conception, her green and maroon brushes for CharlesStewart Parnell and for Michael Davitt, her tissue papers.Were there no means still remaining to him to achieve the rejuvenationwhich these reminiscences divulged to a younger companion rendered themore desirable?The indoor exercises, formerly intermittently practised, subsequentlyabandoned, prescribed in Eugen Sandows Physical Strength and How toObtain It which, designed particularly for commercial men engaged insedentary occupations, were to be made with mental concentration in frontof a mirror so as to bring into play the various families of muscles andproduce successively a pleasant rigidity, a more pleasant relaxation and themost pleasant repristination of juvenile agility.Had any special agility been his in earlier youth?Though ringweight lifting had been beyond his strength and the full circlegyration beyond his courage yet as a High school scholar he had excelled inhis stable and protracted execution of the half lever movement on theparallel bars in consequence of his abnormally developed abdominalmuscles.Did either openly allude to their racial difference?Neither.What, reduced to their simplest reciprocal form, were Blooms thoughtsabout Stephens thoughts about Bloom and about Stephens thoughts aboutBlooms thoughts about Stephen?He thought that he thought that he was a jew whereas he knew that heknew that he knew that he was not.What, the enclosures of reticence removed, were their respectiveparentages?Bloom, only born male transubstantial heir of Rudolf Virag (subsequentlyRudolph Bloom) of Szombathely, Vienna, Budapest, Milan, London andDublin and of Ellen Higgins, second daughter of Julius Higgins (bornKaroly) and Fanny Higgins (born Hegarty). Stephen, eldest surviving maleconsubstantial heir of Simon Dedalus of Cork and Dublin and of Mary,daughter of Richard and Christina Goulding (born Grier).Had Bloom and Stephen been baptised, and where and by whom, cleric orlayman?Bloom (three times), by the reverend Mr Gilmer Johnston M. A., alone, inthe protestant church of Saint Nicholas Without, Coombe, by JamesOConnor, Philip Gilligan and James Fitzpatrick, together, under a pumpin the village of Swords, and by the reverend Charles Malone C. C., in thechurch of the Three Patrons, Rathgar. Stephen (once) by the reverendCharles Malone C. C., alone, in the church of the Three Patrons, Rathgar.Did they find their educational careers similar?Substituting Stephen for Bloom Stoom would have passed successivelythrough a dames school and the high school. Substituting Bloom forStephen Blephen would have passed successively through the preparatory,junior, middle and senior grades of the intermediate and through thematriculation, first arts, second arts and arts degree courses of theroyal university.Why did Bloom refrain from stating that he had frequented the universityof life?Because of his fluctuating incertitude as to whether this observation hador had not been already made by him to Stephen or by Stephen to him.What two temperaments did they individually represent?The scientific. The artistic.What proofs did Bloom adduce to prove that his tendency was towardsapplied, rather than towards pure, science?Certain possible inventions of which he had cogitated when reclining in astate of supine repletion to aid digestion, stimulated by his appreciationof the importance of inventions now common but once revolutionary, forexample, the aeronautic parachute, the reflecting telescope, the spiralcorkscrew, the safety pin, the mineral water siphon, the canal lock withwinch and sluice, the suction pump.Were these inventions principally intended for an improved scheme ofkindergarten?Yes, rendering obsolete popguns, elastic airbladders, games of hazard,catapults. They comprised astronomical kaleidoscopes exhibiting the twelveconstellations of the zodiac from Aries to Pisces, miniature mechanicalorreries, arithmetical gelatine lozenges, geometrical to correspond withzoological biscuits, globemap playing balls, historically costumed dolls.What also stimulated him in his cogitations?The financial success achieved by Ephraim Marks and Charles A. James,the former by his d bazaar at  Georges street, south, the latter athis d shop and worlds fancy fair and waxwork exhibition at  Henry*****~~street, admission d, children d: and the infinite possibilities hithertounexploited of the modern art of advertisement if condensed in triliteralmonoideal symbols, vertically of maximum visibility (divined),horizontally of maximum legibility (deciphered) and of magnetisingefficacy to arrest involuntary attention, to interest, to convince,to decide.Such as?K. II. Kinos /- Trousers.House of Keys. Alexander J. Keyes.Such as not?Look at this long candle. Calculate when it burns out and you receivegratis  pair of our special non-compo boots, guaranteed  candle power.Address: Barclay and Cook,  Talbot street.Bacilikil (Insect Powder).Veribest (Boot Blacking).Uwantit (Combined pocket twoblade penknife with corkscrew, nailfile andpipecleaner).Such as never?What is home without Plumtrees Potted Meat?Incomplete.With it an abode of bliss.Manufactured by George Plumtree,  Merchants quay, Dublin, put up in oz pots, and inserted by Councillor Joseph P. Nannetti, M. P., RotundaWard,  Hardwicke street, under the obituary notices and anniversaries ofdeceases. The name on the label is Plumtree. A plumtree in a meatpot,registered trade mark. Beware of imitations. Peatmot. Trumplee. Moutpat.Plamtroo.Which example did he adduce to induce Stephen to deduce that originality,though producing its own reward, does not invariably conduce to success?His own ideated and rejected project of an illuminated showcart, drawn bya beast of burden, in which two smartly dressed girls were to be seatedengaged in writing.What suggested scene was then constructed by Stephen?Solitary hotel in mountain pass. Autumn. Twilight. Fire lit. In dark corneryoung man seated. Young woman enters. Restless. Solitary. She sits. Shegoes to window. She stands. She sits. Twilight. She thinks. On solitary hotelpaper she writes. She thinks. She writes. She sighs. Wheels and hoofs. Shehurries out. He comes from his dark corner. He seizes solitary paper. Heholds it towards fire. Twilight. He reads. Solitary.What?In sloping, upright and backhands: Queens Hotel, Queens Hotel,Queens Hotel. Queens Ho...What suggested scene was then reconstructed by Bloom?The Queens Hotel, Ennis, county Clare, where Rudolph Bloom (RudolfVirag) died on the evening of the  June , at some hour unstated, inconsequence of an overdose of monkshood (aconite) selfadministered in theform of a neuralgic liniment composed of  parts of aconite liniment to I ofchloroform liniment (purchased by him at . a.m. on the morning of June  at the medical hall of Francis Dennehy,  Church street, Ennis)after having, though not in consequence of having, purchased at . p.m.on the afternoon of  June  a new boater straw hat, extra smart (afterhaving, though not in consequence of having, purchased at the hour and inthe place aforesaid, the toxin aforesaid), at the general drapery store ofJames Cullen,  Main street, Ennis.Did he attribute this homonymity to information or coincidence orintuition?Coincidence.Did he depict the scene verbally for his guest to see?He preferred himself to see anothers face and listen to anothers words bywhich potential narration was realised and kinetic temperament relieved.Did he see only a second coincidence in the second scene narrated to him,described by the narrator as A Pisgah Sight of Palestine or The Parable ofthe Plums?It, with the preceding scene and with others unnarrated but existent byimplication, to which add essays on various subjects or moral apothegms(e.g. My Favourite Hero or Procrastination is the Thief of Time) composedduring schoolyears, seemed to him to contain in itself and in conjunctionwith the personal equation certain possibilities of financial, social,personal and sexual success, whether specially collected and selected as modelpedagogic themes (of cent per cent merit) for the use of preparatory andjunior grade students or contributed in printed form, following theprecedent of Philip Beaufoy or Doctor Dick or Heblons Studies in Blue, toa publication of certified circulation and solvency or employed verbally asintellectual stimulation for sympathetic auditors, tacitly appreciative ofsuccessful narrative and confidently augurative of successful achievement,during the increasingly longer nights gradually following the summersolstice on the day but three following, videlicet, Tuesday,  June (S.Aloysius Gonzaga), sunrise . a.m., sunset . p.m.Which domestic problem as much as, if not more than, any other frequentlyengaged his mind?What to do with our wives.What had been his hypothetical singular solutions?Parlour games (dominos, halma, tiddledywinks, spilikins, cup and ball, nap,spoil five, bezique, twentyfive, beggar my neighbour, draughts, chess orbackgammon): embroidery, darning or knitting for the policeaided clothingsociety: musical duets, mandoline and guitar, piano and flute, guitar andpiano: legal scrivenery or envelope addressing: biweekly visits to varietyentertainments: commercial activity as pleasantly commanding andpleasingly obeyed mistress proprietress in a cool dairy shop or warm cigardivan: the clandestine satisfaction of erotic irritation in masculinebrothels, state inspected and medically controlled: social visits, at regularinfrequent prevented intervals and with regular frequent preventivesuperintendence, to and from female acquaintances of recognised respectabilityin the vicinity: courses of evening instruction specially designed to renderliberal instruction agreeable.What instances of deficient mental development in his wife inclined him infavour of the lastmentioned (ninth) solution?In disoccupied moments she had more than once covered a sheet of paperwith signs and hieroglyphics which she stated were Greek and Irish andHebrew characters. She had interrogated constantly at varying intervals asto the correct method of writing the capital initial of the name of a city inCanada, Quebec. She understood little of political complications, internal,or balance of power, external. In calculating the addenda of bills shefrequently had recourse to digital aid. After completion of laconic epistolarycompositions she abandoned the implement of calligraphy in the encausticpigment, exposed to the corrosive action of copperas, green vitriol andnutgall. Unusual polysyllables of foreign origin she interpreted phoneticallyor by false analogy or by both: metempsychosis (met him pike hoses), alias(a mendacious person mentioned in sacred scripture).What compensated in the false balance of her intelligence for these andsuch deficiencies of judgment regarding persons, places and things?The false apparent parallelism of all perpendicular arms of all balances,proved true by construction. The counterbalance of her proficiency ofjudgment regarding one person, proved true by experiment.How had he attempted to remedy this state of comparative ignorance?Variously. By leaving in a conspicuous place a certain book open at acertain page: by assuming in her, when alluding explanatorily, latentknowledge: by open ridicule in her presence of some absent othersignorant lapse.With what success had he attempted direct instruction?She followed not all, a part of the whole, gave attention with interestcomprehended with surprise, with care repeated, with greater difficultyremembered, forgot with ease, with misgiving reremembered, rerepeatedwith error.What system had proved more effective?Indirect suggestion implicating selfinterest.Example?She disliked umbrella with rain, he liked woman with umbrella, she dislikednew hat with rain, he liked woman with new hat, he bought new hat withrain, she carried umbrella with new hat.Accepting the analogy implied in his guests parable which examples ofpostexilic eminence did he adduce?Three seekers of the pure truth, Moses of Egypt, Moses Maimonides,author of More Nebukim (Guide of the Perplexed) and Moses Mendelssohnof such eminence that from Moses (of Egypt) to Moses (Mendelssohn) therearose none like Moses (Maimonides).What statement was made, under correction, by Bloom concerning a fourthseeker of pure truth, by name Aristotle, mentioned, with permission, byStephen?That the seeker mentioned had been a pupil of a rabbinical philosopher,name uncertain.Were other anapocryphal illustrious sons of the law and children of aselected or rejected race mentioned?Felix Bartholdy Mendelssohn (composer), Baruch Spinoza (philosopher),Mendoza (pugilist), Ferdinand Lassalle (reformer, duellist).What fragments of verse from the ancient Hebrew and ancient Irishlanguages were cited with modulations of voice and translation of texts byguest to host and by host to guest?By Stephen: suil, suil, suil arun, suil go siocair agus suil go cuin(walk, walk, walk your way, walk in safety, walk with care). By Bloom:kifeloch, harimon rakatejch mbaad lzamatejch (thy temple amid thy hairis as a slice of pomegranate).How was a glyphic comparison of the phonic symbols of both languagesmade in substantiation of the oral comparison?By juxtaposition. On the penultimate blank page of a book of inferiorliterary style, entituled Sweets of Sin (produced by Bloom and somanipulated that its front cover carne in contact with the surface of thetable) with a pencil (supplied by Stephen) Stephen wrote the Irishcharacters for gee, eh, dee, em, simple and modified, and Bloom in turnwrote the Hebrew characters ghimel, aleph, daleth and (in the absence ofmem) a substituted qoph, explaining their arithmetical values as ordinaland cardinal numbers, videlicet , , , and .Was the knowledge possessed by both of each of these languages, theextinct and the revived, theoretical or practical?Theoretical, being confined to certain grammatical rules of accidence andsyntax and practically excluding vocabulary.What points of contact existed between these languages and between thepeoples who spoke them?The presence of guttural sounds, diacritic aspirations, epenthetic and servileletters in both languages: their antiquity, both having been taught on theplain of Shinar  years after the deluge in the seminary instituted byFenius Farsaigh, descendant of Noah, progenitor of Israel, and ascendantof Heber and Heremon, progenitors of Ireland: their archaeological,genealogical, hagiographical, exegetical, homiletic, toponomastic, historicaland religious literatures comprising the works of rabbis and culdees, Torah,Talmud (Mischna and Ghemara), Massor, Pentateuch, Book of the DunCow, Book of Ballymote, Garland of Howth, Book of Kells: their dispersal,persecution, survival and revival: the isolation of their synagogical andecclesiastical rites in ghetto (S. Marys Abbey) and masshouse (Adam andEves tavern): the proscription of their national costumes in penal laws andjewish dress acts: the restoration in Chanah David of Zion and thepossibility of Irish political autonomy or devolution.What anthem did Bloom chant partially in anticipation of that multiple,ethnically irreducible consummation?Kolod balejwaw pnimahNefesch, jehudi, homijah.Why was the chant arrested at the conclusion of this first distich?In consequence of defective mnemotechnic.How did the chanter compensate for this deficiency?By a periphrastic version of the general text.In what common study did their mutual reflections merge?The increasing simplification traceable from the Egyptian epigraphichieroglyphs to the Greek and Roman alphabets and the anticipation ofmodern stenography and telegraphic code in the cuneiform inscriptions(Semitic) and the virgular quinquecostate ogham writing (Celtic).Did the guest comply with his hosts request?Doubly, by appending his signature in Irish and Roman characters.What was Stephens auditive sensation?He heard in a profound ancient male unfamiliar melody the accumulationof the past.What was Blooms visual sensation?He saw in a quick young male familiar form the predestination of a future.What were Stephens and Blooms quasisimultaneous volitionalquasisensations of concealed identities?Visually, Stephens: The traditional figure of hypostasis, depicted byJohannes Damascenus, Lentulus Romanus and Epiphanius Monachus asleucodermic, sesquipedalian with winedark hair.Auditively, Blooms: The traditional accent of the ecstasy of catastrophe.What future careers had been possible for Bloom in the past and with whatexemplars?In the church, Roman, Anglican or Nonconformist: exemplars, the veryreverend John Conmee S. J., the reverend T. Salmon, D. D., provost ofTrinity college, Dr Alexander J. Dowie. At the bar, English or Irish:exemplars, Seymour Bushe, K. C., Rufus Isaacs, K. C. On the stagemodern or Shakespearean: exemplars, Charles Wyndham, high comedianOsmond Tearle (  ), exponent of Shakespeare.Did the host encourage his guest to chant in a modulated voice a strangelegend on an allied theme?Reassuringly, their place, where none could hear them talk, beingsecluded, reassured, the decocted beverages, allowing for subsolidresidual sediment of a mechanical mixture, water plus sugar plus creamplus cocoa, having been consumed.Recite the first (major) part of this chanted legend.Little Harry Hughes and his schoolfellows allWent out for to play ball.And the very first ball little Harry Hughes playedHe drove it oer the jews garden wall.And the very second ball little Harry Hughes playedHe broke the jews windows all.[NOTE: for Graphic use viewer or print]How did the son of Rudolph receive this first part?With unmixed feeling. Smiling, a jew he heard with pleasure and saw theunbroken kitchen window.Recite the second part (minor) of the legend.Then out there came the jews daughterAnd she all dressed in green."Come back, come back,you pretty little boy,And play your ball again.""I cant come back and I wont come backWithout my schoolfellows all.For if my master he did hearHed make it a sorry ball."She took him by the lilywhite handAnd led him along the hallUntil she led him to a roomWhere none could hear him call.She took a penknife out of her pocketAnd cut off  his little head.And now hell play his ball no moreFor he lies among the dead.How did the father of Millicent receive this second part?With mixed feelings. Unsmiling, he heard and saw with wonder a jewsdaughter, all dressed in green.Condense Stephens commentary.One of all, the least of all, is the victim predestined. Once by inadvertencetwice by design he challenges his destiny. It comes when he is abandonedand challenges him reluctant and, as an apparition of hope and youth, holdshim unresisting. It leads him to a strange habitation, to a secret infidelapartment, and there, implacable, immolates him, consenting.Why was the host (victim predestined) sad?He wished that a tale of a deed should be told of a deed not by him shouldby him not be told.Why was the host (reluctant, unresisting) still?In accordance with the law of the conservation of energy.Why was the host (secret infidel) silent?He weighed the possible evidences for and against ritual murder: theincitations of the hierarchy, the superstition of the populace, thepropagation of rumour in continued fraction of veridicity, the envy ofopulence, the influence of retaliation, the sporadic reappearance of atavisticdelinquency, the mitigating circumstances of fanaticism, hypnoticsuggestion and somnambulism.From which (if any) of these mental or physical disorders was he not totallyimmune?From hypnotic suggestion: once, waking, he had not recognised hissleeping apartment: more than once, waking, he had been for an indefinitetime incapable of moving or uttering sounds. From somnambulism: once,sleeping, his body had risen, crouched and crawled in the direction of aheatless fire and, having attained its destination, there, curled, unheated,in night attire had lain, sleeping.Had this latter or any cognate phenomenon declared itself in any memberof his family?Twice, in Holles street and in Ontario terrace, his daughter Millicent(Milly) at the ages of  and  years had uttered in sleep an exclamation ofterror and had replied to the interrogations of two figures in night attirewith a vacant mute expression.What other infantile memories had he of her? June . A querulous newborn female infant crying to cause andlessen congestion. A child renamed Padney Socks she shook with shocksher moneybox: counted his three free moneypenny buttons, one, tloo, tlee:a doll, a boy, a sailor she cast away: blond, born of two dark, she had blondancestry, remote, a violation, Herr Hauptmann Hainau, Austrian army,proximate, a hallucination, lieutenant Mulvey, British navy.What endemic characteristics were present?Conversely the nasal and frontal formation was derived in a direct line oflineage which, though interrupted, would continue at distant intervals tomore distant intervals to its most distant intervals.What memories had he of her adolescence?She relegated her hoop and skippingrope to a recess. On the dukes lawn,entreated by an English visitor, she declined to permit him to make and takeaway her photographic image (objection not stated). On the South Circularroad in the company of Elsa Potter, followed by an individual of sinisteraspect, she went half way down Stamer street and turned abruptly back(reason of change not stated). On the vigil of the th anniversary of herbirth she wrote a letter from Mullingar, county Westmeath, making a briefallusion to a local student (faculty and year not stated).Did that first division, portending a second division, afflict him?Less than he had imagined, more than he had hoped.What second departure was contemporaneously perceived by him similarly,if differently?A temporary departure of his cat.Why similarly, why differently?Similarly, because actuated by a secret purpose the quest of a new male(Mullingar student) or of a healing herb (valerian). Differently, because ofdifferent possible returns to the inhabitants or to the habitation.In other respects were their differences similar?In passivity, in economy, in the instinct of tradition, in unexpectedness.As?Inasmuch as leaning she sustained her blond hair for him to ribbon it forher (cf neckarching cat). Moreover, on the free surface of the lake inStephens green amid inverted reflections of trees her uncommented spit,describing concentric circles of waterrings, indicated by the constancy of itspermanence the locus of a somnolent prostrate fish (cf mousewatching cat).Again, in order to remember the date, combatants, issue and consequencesof a famous military engagement she pulled a plait of her hair (cfearwashing cat). Furthermore, silly Milly, she dreamed of having had anunspoken unremembered conversation with a horse whose name had beenJoseph to whom (which) she had offered a tumblerful of lemonade which it(he) had appeared to have accepted (cf hearthdreaming cat). Hence, inpassivity, in economy, in the instinct of tradition, in unexpectedness, theirdifferences were similar.In what way had he utilised gifts () an owl, ) a clock), given asmatrimonial auguries, to interest and to instruct her?As object lessons toexplain: ) the nature and habits of oviparous animals, the possibility ofaerial flight, certain abnormalities of vision, the secular processof imbalsamation: ) the principle of the pendulum, exemplified inbob, wheelgear and regulator, the translation in terms of human or socialregulation of the various positions of clockwise moveable indicators on anunmoving dial, the exactitude of the recurrence per hour of an instant ineach hour when the longer and the shorter indicator were at the same angleof inclination, videlicet,  / minutes past each hour per hour inarithmetical progression.In what manners did she reciprocate?She remembered: on the th anniversary of his birth she presented to him abreakfast moustachecup of imitation Crown Derby porcelain ware. Sheprovided: at quarter day or thereabouts if or when purchases had beenmade by him not for her she showed herself attentive to his necessities,anticipating his desires. She admired: a natural phenomenon having beenexplained by him to her she expressed the immediate desire to possesswithout gradual acquisition a fraction of his science, the moiety, thequarter, a thousandth part.What proposal did Bloom, diambulist, father of Milly, somnambulist, maketo Stephen, noctambulist?To pass in repose the hours intervening between Thursday (proper) andFriday (normal) on an extemporised cubicle in the apartment immediatelyabove the kitchen and immediately adjacent to the sleeping apartment of hishost and hostess.What various advantages would or might have resulted from aprolongation of such an extemporisation?For the guest: security of domicile and seclusion of study. For the host:rejuvenation of intelligence, vicarious satisfaction. For the hostess:disintegration of obsession, acquisition of correct Italian pronunciation.Why might these several provisional contingencies between a guest and ahostess not necessarily preclude or be precluded by a permanent eventualityof reconciliatory union between a schoolfellow and a jews daughter?Because the way to daughter led through mother, the way to motherthrough daughter.To what inconsequent polysyllabic question of his host did the guest returna monosyllabic negative answer?If he had known the late Mrs Emily Sinico, accidentally killed at SydneyParade railway station,  October .What inchoate corollary statement was consequently suppressed by thehost?A statement explanatory of his absence on the occasion of the interment ofMrs Mary Dedalus (born Goulding),  June , vigil of the anniversaryof the decease of Rudolph Bloom (born Virag).Was the proposal of asylum accepted?Promptly, inexplicably, with amicability, gratefully it was declined.What exchange of money took place between host and guest?The former returned to the latter, without interest, a sum of money(--), one pound seven shillings sterling, advanced by the latter to theformer.What counterproposals were alternately advanced, accepted, modified,declined, restated in other terms, reaccepted, ratified, reconfirmed?To inaugurate a prearranged course of Italian instruction, place theresidence of the instructed. To inaugurate a course of vocal instruction,place the residence of the instructress. To inaugurate a series of staticsemistatic and peripatetic intellectual dialogues, places the residence ofboth speakers (if both speakers were resident in the same place), the Shiphotel and tavern,  Lower Abbey street (W. and E. Connery, proprietors),the National Library of Ireland,  Kildare street, the National MaternityHospital, ,  and  Holles street, a public garden, the vicinity of aplace of worship, a conjunction of two or more public thoroughfares, thepoint of bisection of a right line drawn between their residences(if both speakers were resident in different places).What rendered problematic for Bloom the realisation of these mutuallyselfexcluding propositions?The irreparability of the past: once at a performance of Albert Henglerscircus in the Rotunda, Rutland square, Dublin, an intuitive particolouredclown in quest of paternity had penetrated from the ring to a place in theauditorium where Bloom, solitary, was seated and had publicly declared toan exhilarated audience that he (Bloom) was his (the clowns) papa. Theimprevidibility of the future: once in the summer of  he (Bloom) hadmarked a florin (/-) with three notches on the milled edge and tendered itm payment of an account due to and received by J. and T. Davy, familygrocers,  Charlemont Mall, Grand Canal, for circulation on the waters ofcivic finance, for possible, circuitous or direct, return.Was the clown Blooms son?No.Had Blooms coin returned?Never.Why would a recurrent frustration the more depress him?Because at the critical turningpoint of human existence he desired to amendmany social conditions, the product of inequality and avarice andinternational animosity.He believed then that human life was infinitely perfectible, eliminating theseconditions?There remained the generic conditions imposed by natural, as distinct fromhuman law, as integral parts of the human whole: the necessity ofdestruction to procure alimentary sustenance: the painful character of theultimate functions of separate existence, the agonies of birth and death: themonotonous menstruation of simian and (particularly) human femalesextending from the age of puberty to the menopause: inevitable accidents atsea, in mines and factories: certain very painful maladies and their resultantsurgical operations, innate lunacy and congenital criminality, decimatingepidemics: catastrophic cataclysms which make terror the basis of humanmentality: seismic upheavals the epicentres of which are located in denselypopulated regions: the fact of vital growth, through convulsions ofmetamorphosis, from infancy through maturity to decay.Why did he desist from speculation?Because it was a task for a superior intelligence to substitute other moreacceptable phenomena in the place of the less acceptable phenomena to beremoved.Did Stephen participate in his dejection?He affirmed his significance as a conscious rational animal proceedingsyllogistically from the known to the unknown and a conscious rationalreagent between a micro and a macrocosm ineluctably constructed upon theincertitude of the void.Was this affirmation apprehended by Bloom?Not verbally. Substantially.What comforted his misapprehension?That as a competent keyless citizen he had proceeded energetically from theunknown to the known through the incertitude of the void.In what order of precedence, with what attendant ceremony was the exodusfrom the house of bondage to the wilderness of inhabitation effected?Lighted Candle in Stickborne byBLOOMDiaconal Hat on Ashplantborne bySTEPHEN:With what intonation secreto of what commemorative psalm?The th, modus peregrinus: In exitu Israel de Egypto: domus Jacob depopulo barbaro.What did each do at the door of egress?Bloom set the candlestick on the floor. Stephen put the hat on his head.For what creature was the door of egress a door of ingress?For a cat.What spectacle confronted them when they, first the host, then the guest,emerged silently, doubly dark, from obscurity by a passage from the rere ofthe house into the penumbra of the garden?The heaventree of stars hung with humid nightblue fruit.With what meditations did Bloom accompany his demonstration to hiscompanion of various constellations?Meditations of evolution increasingly vaster: of the moon invisible inincipient lunation, approaching perigee: of the infinite lattiginousscintillating uncondensed milky way, discernible by daylight by an observerplaced at the lower end of a cylindrical vertical shaft  ft deep sunkfrom the surface towards the centre of the earth: of Sirius (alpha in CanisMaior)  lightyears (,,,, miles) distant and in volume times the dimension of our planet: of Arcturus: of the precession ofequinoxes: of Orion with belt and sextuple sun theta and nebula in which of our solar systems could be contained: of moribund and of nascentnew stars such as Nova in : of our system plunging towards theconstellation of Hercules: of the parallax or parallactic drift of socalledfixed stars, in reality evermoving wanderers from immeasurably remoteeons to infinitely remote futures in comparison with which the years,threescore and ten, of allotted human life formed a parenthesis ofinfinitesimal brevity.Were there obverse meditations of involution increasingly less vast?Of the eons of geological periods recorded in the stratifications of theearth: of the myriad minute entomological organic existences concealed incavities of the earth, beneath removable stones, in hives and mounds, ofmicrobes, germs, bacteria, bacilli, spermatozoa: of the incalculabletrillions of billions of millions of imperceptible molecules contained bycohesion of molecular affinity in a single pinhead: of the universe ofhuman serum constellated with red and white bodies, themselves universesof void space constellated with other bodies, each, in continuity,its universe of divisible component bodies of which each was againdivisible in divisions of redivisible component bodies, dividends anddivisors ever diminishing without actual division till, if the progresswere carried far enough, nought nowhere was never reached.Why did he not elaborate these calculations to a more precise result?Because some years previously in  when occupied with the problem ofthe quadrature of the circle he had learned of .the existence of a numbercomputed to a relative degree of accuracy to be of such magnitude and of somany places, e.g., the th power of the th power of , that, the resulthaving been obtained,  closely printed volumes of  pages each ofinnumerable quires and reams of India paper would have to berequisitioned in order to contain the complete tale of its printed integers ofunits, tens, hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands,millions, tens of millions, hundreds of millions, billions, the nucleus of thenebula of every digit of every series containing succinctly the potentialityof being raised to the utmost kinetic elaboration of any power of any of itspowers.Did he find the problems of the inhabitability of the planets and theirsatellites by a race, given in species, and of the possible social and moralredemption of said race by a redeemer, easier of solution?Of a different order of difficulty. Conscious that the human organism,normally capable of sustaining an atmospheric pressure of  tons, whenelevated to a considerable altitude in the terrestrial atmosphere sufferedwith arithmetical progression of intensity, according as the line ofdemarcation between troposphere and stratosphere was approximatedfrom nasal hemorrhage, impeded respiration and vertigo, when proposingthis problem for solution, he had conjectured as a working hypothesiswhich could not be proved impossible that a more adaptable and differentlyanatomically constructed race of beings might subsist otherwise underMartian, Mercurial, Veneral, Jovian, Saturnian, Neptunian or Uraniansufficient and equivalent conditions, though an apogean humanity of beingscreated in varying forms with finite differences resulting similar to thewhole and to one another would probably there as here remain inalterablyand inalienably attached to vanities, to vanities of vanities and to all thatis vanity.And the problem of possible redemption?The minor was proved by the major.Which various features of the constellations were in turn considered?The various colours significant of various degrees of vitality (white, yellow,crimson, vermilion, cinnabar): their degrees of brilliancy: their magnitudesrevealed up to and including the th: their positions: the waggoners star:Walsingham way: the chariot of David: the annular cinctures of Saturn:the condensation of spiral nebulae into suns: the interdependent gyrationsof double suns: the independent synchronous discoveries of Galileo, SimonMarius, Piazzi, Le Verrier, Herschel, Galle: the systematisations attemptedby Bode and Kepler of cubes of distances and squares of times ofrevolution: the almost infinite compressibility of hirsute comets and theirvast elliptical egressive and reentrant orbits from perihelion to aphelion:the sidereal origin of meteoric stones: the Libyan floods on Mars about theperiod of the birth of the younger astroscopist: the annual recurrence ofmeteoric showers about the period of the feast of S. Lawrence (martyr, loAugust): the monthly recurrence known as the new moon with the oldmoon in her arms: the posited influence of celestial on human bodies: theappearance of a star (st magnitude) of exceeding brilliancy dominating bynight and day (a new luminous sun generated by the collision andamalgamation in incandescence of two nonluminous exsuns) about theperiod of the birth of William Shakespeare over delta in the recumbentneversetting constellation of Cassiopeia and of a star (nd magnitude) ofsimilar origin but of lesser brilliancy which had appeared in anddisappeared from the constellation of the Corona Septentrionalis about theperiod of the birth of Leopold Bloom and of other stars of (presumably)similar origin which had (effectively or presumably) appeared in anddisappeared from the constellation of Andromeda about the period of thebirth of Stephen Dedalus, and in and from the constellation of Auriga someyears after the birth and death of Rudolph Bloom, junior, and in and fromother constellations some years before or after the birth or death of otherpersons: the attendant phenomena of eclipses, solar and lunar, fromimmersion to emersion, abatement of wind, transit of shadow, taciturnity ofwinged creatures, emergence of nocturnal or crepuscular animals,persistence of infernal light, obscurity of terrestrial waters, pallor ofhuman beings.His (Blooms) logical conclusion, having weighed the matter and allowingfor possible error?That it was not a heaventree, not a heavengrot, not a heavenbeast, not aheavenman. That it was a Utopia, there being no known method from theknown to the unknown: an infinity renderable equally finite by thesuppositious apposition of one or more bodies equally of the same and ofdifferent magnitudes: a mobility of illusory forms immobilised in space,remobilised in air: a past which possibly had ceased to exist as a presentbefore its probable spectators had entered actual present existence.Was he more convinced of the esthetic value of the spectacle?Indubitably in consequence of the reiterated examples of poets in thedelirium of the frenzy of attachment or in the abasement of rejectioninvoking ardent sympathetic constellations or the frigidity of the satelliteof their planet.Did he then accept as an article of belief the theory of astrologicalinfluences upon sublunary disasters?It seemed to him as possible of proof as of confutation and thenomenclature employed in its selenographical charts as attributable toverifiable intuition as to fallacious analogy: the lake of dreams, the sea ofrains, the gulf of dews, the ocean of fecundity.What special affinities appeared to him to exist between the moon andwoman?Her antiquity in preceding and surviving successive tellurian generations:her nocturnal predominance: her satellitic dependence: her luminaryreflection: her constancy under all her phases, rising and setting by herappointed times, waxing and waning: the forced invariability of her aspect:her indeterminate response to inaffirmative interrogation: her potency overeffluent and refluent waters: her power to enamour, to mortify, to investwith beauty, to render insane, to incite to and aid delinquency: the tranquilinscrutability of her visage: the terribility of her isolated dominantimplacable resplendent propinquity: her omens of tempest and of calm: thestimulation of her light, her motion and her presence: the admonition of hercraters, her arid seas, her silence: her splendour, when visible: herattraction, when invisible.What visible luminous sign attracted Blooms, who attracted Stephens,gaze?In the second storey (rere) of his (Blooms) house the light of a paraffin oillamp with oblique shade projected on a screen of roller blind supplied byFrank OHara, window blind, curtain pole and revolving shuttermanufacturer,  Aungier street.How did he elucidate the mystery of an invisible attractive person, his wifeMarion (Molly) Bloom, denoted by a visible splendid sign, a lamp?With indirect and direct verbal allusions or affirmations: with subduedaffection and admiration: with description: with impediment: withsuggestion.Both then were silent?Silent, each contemplating the other in both mirrors of the reciprocal fleshof theirhisnothis fellowfaces.Were they indefinitely inactive?At Stephens suggestion, at Blooms instigation both, first Stephen, thenBloom, in penumbra urinated, their sides contiguous, their organs ofmicturition reciprocally rendered invisible by manual circumposition, theirgazes, first Blooms, then Stephens, elevated to the projected luminous andsemiluminous shadow.Similarly?The trajectories of their, first sequent, then simultaneous, urinations weredissimilar: Blooms longer, less irruent, in the incomplete form of thebifurcated penultimate alphabetical letter, who in his ultimate year at HighSchool () had been capable of attaining the point of greatest altitudeagainst the whole concurrent strength of the institution,  scholars:Stephens higher, more sibilant, who in the ultimate hours of the previousday had augmented by diuretic consumption an insistent vesical pressure.What different problems presented themselves to each concerning theinvisible audible collateral organ of the other?To Bloom: the problems of irritability, tumescence, rigidity, reactivity,dimension, sanitariness, pilosity.To Stephen: the problem of the sacerdotal integrity of Jesus circumcised (IJanuary, holiday of obligation to hear mass and abstain from unnecessaryservile work) and the problem as to whether the divine prepuce, the carnalbridal ring of the holy Roman catholic apostolic church, conserved inCalcata, were deserving of simple hyperduly or of the fourth degree oflatria accorded to the abscission of such divine excrescences as hair andtoenails.What celestial sign was by both simultaneously observed?A star precipitated with great apparent velocity across the firmament fromVega in the Lyre above the zenith beyond the stargroup of the Tress ofBerenice towards the zodiacal sign of Leo.How did the centripetal remainer afford egress to the centrifugal departer?By inserting the barrel of an arruginated male key in the hole of an unstablefemale lock, obtaining a purchase on the bow of the key and turning itswards from right to left, withdrawing a bolt from its staple, pulling inwardspasmodically an obsolescent unhinged door and revealing an aperture forfree egress and free ingress.How did they take leave, one of the other, in separation?Standing perpendicular at the same door and on different sides of its base,the lines of their valedictory arms, meeting at any point and forming anyangle less than the sum of two right angles.What sound accompanied the union of their tangent, the disunion of their(respectively) centrifugal and centripetal hands?The sound of the peal of the hour of the night by the chime of the bells inthe church of Saint George.What echoes of that sound were by both and each heard?By Stephen:Liliata rutilantium. Turma circumdet.Iubilantium te virginum. Chorus excipiat.By Bloom:Heigho, heigho,Heigho, heigho.Where were the several members of the company which with Bloom thatday at the bidding of that peal had travelled from Sandymount in the southto Glasnevin in the north?Martin Cunningham (in bed), Jack Power (in bed), Simon Dedalus (inbed), Ned Lambert (in bed), Tom Kernan (in bed), Joe Hynes (in bed),John Henry Menton (in bed), Bernard Corrigan (in bed), Patsy Dignam (inbed), Paddy Dignam (in the grave).Alone, what did Bloom hear?The double reverberation of retreating feet on the heavenborn earth, thedouble vibration of a jews harp in the resonant lane.Alone, what did Bloom feel?The cold of interstellar space, thousands of degrees below freezing point orthe absolute zero of Fahrenheit, Centigrade or Reaumur: the incipientintimations of proximate dawn.Of what did bellchime and handtouch and footstep and lonechill remind him?Of companions now in various manners in different places defunct: PercyApjohn (killed in action, Modder River), Philip Gilligan (phthisis, JervisStreet hospital), Matthew F. Kane (accidental drowning, Dublin Bay),Philip Moisel (pyemia, Heytesbury street), Michael Hart (phthisis, MaterMisericordiae hospital), Patrick Dignam (apoplexy, Sandymount).What prospect of what phenomena inclined him to remain?The disparition of three final stars, the diffusion of daybreak, theapparition of a new solar disk.Had he ever been a spectator of those phenomena?Once, in , after a protracted performance of charades in the house ofLuke Doyle, Kimmage, he had awaited with patience the apparition of thediurnal phenomenon, seated on a wall, his gaze turned in the direction ofMizrach, the east.He remembered the initial paraphenomena?More active air, a matutinal distant cock, ecclesiastical clocks at variouspoints, avine music, the isolated tread of an early wayfarer, the visiblediffusion of the light of an invisible luminous body, the first golden limb ofthe resurgent sun perceptible low on the horizon.Did he remain?With deep inspiration he returned, retraversing the garden, reentering thepassage, reclosing the door. With brief suspiration he reassumed the candle,reascended the stairs, reapproached the door of the front room, hallfloor,and reentered.What suddenly arrested his ingress?The right temporal lobe of the hollow sphere of his cranium came intocontact with a solid timber angle where, an infinitesimal but sensiblefraction of a second later, a painful sensation was located in consequence ofantecedent sensations transmitted and registered.Describe the alterations effected in the disposition of the articles offurniture.A sofa upholstered in prune plush had been translocated from opposite thedoor to the ingleside near the compactly furled Union Jack (an alterationwhich he had frequently intended to execute): the blue and white checkerinlaid majolicatopped table had been placed opposite the door in the placevacated by the prune plush sofa: the walnut sideboard (a projecting angleof which had momentarily arrested his ingress) had been moved from itsposition beside the door to a more advantageous but more perilous positionin front of the door: two chairs had been moved from right and left of theingleside to the position originally occupied by the blue and white checkerinlaid majolicatopped table.Describe them.One: a squat stuffed easychair, with stout arms extended and back slantedto the rere, which, repelled in recoil, had then upturned an irregular fringeof a rectangular rug and now displayed on its amply upholstered seat acentralised diffusing and diminishing discolouration. The other: a slendersplayfoot chair of glossy cane curves, placed directly opposite the former,its frame from top to seat and from seat to base being varnished darkbrown, its seat being a bright circle of white plaited rush.What significances attached to these two chairs?Significances of similitude, of posture, of symbolism, of circumstantialevidence, of testimonial supermanence.What occupied the position originally occupied by the sideboard?A vertical piano (Cadby) with exposed keyboard, its closed coffinsupporting a pair of long yellow ladies gloves and an emerald ashtraycontaining four consumed matches, a partly consumed cigarette and twodiscoloured ends of cigarettes, its musicrest supporting the music in the keyof G natural for voice and piano of Loves Old Sweet Song (words by G.Clifton Bingham, composed by J. L. Molloy, sung by Madam AntoinetteSterling) open at the last page with the final indications ad libitum, forte,pedal, animato, sustained pedal, ritirando, close.With what sensations did Bloom contemplate in rotation these objects?With strain, elevating a candlestick: with pain, feeling on his right temple acontused tumescence: with attention, focussing his gaze on a large dullpassive and a slender bright active: with solicitation, bending anddownturning the upturned rugfringe: with amusement, remembering DrMalachi Mulligans scheme of colour containing the gradation of green:with pleasure, repeating the words and antecedent act and perceivingthrough various channels of internal sensibility the consequent andconcomitant tepid pleasant diffusion of gradual discolouration.His next proceeding?From an open box on the majolicatopped table he extracted a blackdiminutive cone, one inch in height, placed it on its circular base on a smalltin plate, placed his candlestick on the right corner of the mantelpiece,produced from his waistcoat a folded page of prospectus (illustrated)entitled Agendath Netaim, unfolded the same, examined it superficially,rolled it into a thin cylinder, ignited it in the candleflame, applied it whenignited to the apex of the cone till the latter reached the stage ofrutilance, placed the cylinder in the basin of the candlestick disposingits unconsumed part in such a manner as to facilitate total combustion.What followed this operation?The truncated conical crater summit of the diminutive volcano emitted avertical and serpentine fume redolent of aromatic oriental incense.What homothetic objects, other than the candlestick, stood on themantelpiece?A timepiece of striated Connemara marble, stopped at the hour of. a.m. on the  March , matrimonial gift of Matthew Dillon: adwarf tree of glacial arborescence under a transparent bellshade,matrimonial gift of Luke and Caroline Doyle: an embalmed owl,matrimonial gift of Alderman John Hooper.What interchanges of looks took place between these three objects andBloom?In the mirror of the giltbordered pierglass the undecorated back of thedwarf tree regarded the upright back of the embalmed owl. Before themirror the matrimonial gift of Alderman John Hooper with a clearmelancholy wise bright motionless compassionate gaze regarded Bloomwhile Bloom with obscure tranquil profound motionless compassionatedgaze regarded the matrimonial gift of Luke and Caroline Doyle.What composite asymmetrical image in the mirror then attracted hisattention?The image of a solitary (ipsorelative) mutable (aliorelative) man.Why solitary (ipsorelative)?Brothers and sisters had he none.Yet that mans father was his grandfathers son.Why mutable (aliorelative)?From infancy to maturity he had resembled his maternal procreatrix. Frommaturity to senility he would increasingly resemble his paternalprocreator.What final visual impression was communicated to him by the mirror?The optical reflection of several inverted volumes improperly arranged andnot in the order of their common letters with scintillating titles on thetwo bookshelves opposite.Catalogue these books.Thoms Dublin Post Office Directory, .Denis Florence MCarthys Poetical Works (copper beechleaf bookmark atp. ).Shakespeares Works (dark crimson morocco, goldtooled).The Useful Ready Reckoner (brown cloth).The Secret History of the Court of Charles II (red cloth, tooled binding).The Childs Guide (blue cloth).The Beauties of Killarney (wrappers).When We Were Boys by William OBrien M. P. (green cloth, slightly faded,envelope bookmark at p. ).Thoughts from Spinoza (maroon leather).The Story of the Heavens by Sir Robert Ball (blue cloth).Elliss Three Trips to Madagascar (brown cloth, title obliterated).The Stark-Munro Letters by A. Conan Doyle, property of the City ofDublin Public Library,  Capel street, lent  May (Whitsun Eve), due  June ,  days overdue (black cloth binding, bearingwhite letternumber ticket).Voyages in China by "Viator" (recovered with brown paper, red ink title).Philosophy of the Talmud (sewn pamphlet).Lockharts Life of Napoleon (cover wanting, marginal annotations,minimising victories, aggrandising defeats of the protagonist).Soll und Haben by Gustav Freytag (black boards, Gothic characters,cigarette coupon bookmark at p. ).Hoziers History of the Russo-Turkish War (brown cloth, a volumes, withgummed label, Garrison Library, Governors Parade, Gibraltar, on versoof cover).Laurence Bloomfield in Ireland by William Allingham (second edition,green cloth, gilt trefoil design, previous owners name on recto of flyleaferased).A Handbook of Astronomy (cover, brown leather, detached, S plates,antique letterpress long primer, authors footnotes nonpareil, marginalclues brevier, captions small pica).The Hidden Life of Christ (black boards).In the Track of the Sun (yellow cloth, titlepage missing, recurrent titleintestation).Physical Strength and How to Obtain It by Eugen Sandow (red cloth).Short but yet Plain Elements of Geometry written in French by F. Ignat.Pardies and rendered into English by John Harris D. D. London, printedfor R. Knaplock at the Bifhops Head, MDCCXI, with dedicatory epiftleto his worthy friend Charles Cox, efquire, Member of Parliament for theburgh of Southwark and having ink calligraphed statement on the flyleafcertifying that the book was the property of Michael Gallagher, datedthis th day of May  and requefting the perfon who should find it, ifthe book should be loft or go aftray, to reftore it to Michael Gallagher,carpenter, Dufery Gate, Ennifcorthy, county Wicklow, the fineft place inthe world.What reflections occupied his mind during the process of reversion of theinverted volumes?The necessity of order, a place for everything and everything in its place:the deficient appreciation of literature possessed by females: the incongruityof an apple incuneated in a tumbler and of an umbrella inclined in aclosestool: the insecurity of hiding any secret document behind, beneath orbetween the pages of a book.Which volume was the largest in bulk?Hoziers History of the Russo-Turkish war.What among other data did the second volume of the work in questioncontain?The name of a decisive battle (forgotten), frequently remembered by adecisive officer, major Brian Cooper Tweedy (remembered).Why, firstly andsecondly, did he not consult the work in question?Firstly, in order to exercise mnemotechnic: secondly, because after aninterval of amnesia, when, seated at the central table, about to consult thework in question, he remembered by mnemotechnic the name of themilitary engagement, Plevna.What caused him consolation in his sitting posture?The candour, nudity, pose, tranquility, youth, grace, sex, counsel of a statueerect in the centre of the table, an image of Narcissus purchased by auctionfrom P. A. Wren,  Bachelors Walk.What caused him irritation in his sitting posture?Inhibitory pressure of collar (size ) and waistcoat ( buttons), twoarticles of clothing superfluous in the costume of mature males and inelasticto alterations of mass by expansion.How was the irritation allayed?He removed his collar, with contained black necktie and collapsible stud,from his neck to a position on the left of the table. He unbuttonedsuccessively in reversed direction waistcoat, trousers, shirt and vest alongthe medial line of irregular incrispated black hairs extending in triangularconvergence from the pelvic basin over the circumference of the abdomenand umbilicular fossicle along the medial line of nodes to the intersection ofthe sixth pectoral vertebrae, thence produced both ways at right angles andterminating in circles described about two equidistant points, right and left,on the summits of the mammary prominences. He unbraced successivelyeach of six minus one braced trouser buttons, arranged in pairs, of whichone incomplete.What involuntary actions followed?He compressed between  fingers the flesh circumjacent to a cicatrice in theleft infracostal region below the diaphragm resulting from a sting inflicted weeks and  days previously ( May ) by a bee. He scratchedimprecisely with his right hand, though insensible of prurition, variouspoints and surfaces of his partly exposed, wholly abluted skin. He insertedhis left hand into the left lower pocket of his waistcoat and extracted andreplaced a silver coin (I shilling), placed there (presumably) on the occasion( October ) of the interment of Mrs Emily Sinico, Sydney Parade.Compile the budget for  June .DEBIT                                           CREDIT                         L--s--d                                   L--s--d Pork kidney            ----       Cash in Hand                ---- Copy FREEMANS JOURNAL ---- Commission recd FREEMANS JOURNAL ---- Bath And Gratification ---- Loan (Stephen Dedalus)            ----Tramfare                 ---- In MemoriamPatrick Dignam           ---- Banbury cakes          ---- Lunch                  ---- Renewal fee for book   ---- Packet Notepaperand Envelopes            ---- Dinnerand Gratification        ----I Postal Orderand Stamp                ----Tramfare                 ---- Pigs Foot             ---- Sheeps Trotter        ---- Cake FrysPlain Chocolate          ---- Square Soda Bread      ---- Coffee and Bun         ----Loan (Stephen Dedalus)refunded                 ----BALANCE                 ----                        ----                                  ----Did the process of divestiture continue?Sensible of a benignant persistent ache in his footsoles he extended his footto one side and observed the creases, protuberances and salient pointscaused by foot pressure in the course of walking repeatedly in severaldifferent directions, then, inclined, he disnoded the laceknots, unhookedand loosened the laces, took off each of his two boots for the second time,detached the partially moistened right sock through the fore part of whichthe nail of his great toe had again effracted, raised his right foot and,having unhooked a purple elastic sock suspender, took off his right sock,placed his unclothed right foot on the margin of the seat of his chair, pickedat and gently lacerated the protruding part of the great toenail, raised thepart lacerated to his nostrils and inhaled the odour of the quick, then, withsatisfaction, threw away the lacerated ungual fragment.Why with satisfaction?Because the odour inhaled corresponded to other odours inhaled of otherungual fragments, picked and lacerated by Master Bloom, pupil of MrsElliss juvenile school, patiently each night in the act of brief genuflectionand nocturnal prayer and ambitious meditation.In what ultimate ambition had all concurrent and consecutive ambitionsnow coalesced?Not to inherit by right of primogeniture, gavelkind or borough English, orpossess in perpetuity an extensive demesne of a sufficient number of acres,roods and perches, statute land measure (valuation  pounds), of grazingturbary surrounding a baronial hall with gatelodge and carriage drive nor,on the other hand, a terracehouse or semidetached villa, described as Rus inUrbe or Qui si sana, but to purchase by private treaty in fee simple athatched bungalowshaped  storey dwellinghouse of southerly aspect,surmounted by vane and lightning conductor, connected with the earth, withporch covered by parasitic plants (ivy or Virginia creeper), halldoor, olivegreen, with smart carriage finish and neat doorbrasses, stucco front with gilttracery at eaves and gable, rising, if possible, upon a gentle eminence withagreeable prospect from balcony with stone pillar parapet over unoccupiedand unoccupyable interjacent pastures and standing in  or  acres of itsown ground, at such a distance from the nearest public thoroughfare as torender its houselights visible at night above and through a quicksethornbeam hedge of topiary cutting, situate at a given point not less than statute mile from the periphery of the metropolis, within a time limit of notmore than  minutes from tram or train line (e.g., Dundrum, south, orSutton, north, both localities equally reported by trial to resemble theterrestrial poles in being favourable climates for phthisical subjects), thepremises to be held under feefarm grant, lease  years, the messuage toconsist of  drawingroom with baywindow ( lancets), thermometeraffixed,  sittingroom,  bedrooms,  servants rooms, tiled kitchen withclose range and scullery, lounge hall fitted with linen wallpresses, fumedoak sectional bookcase containing the Encyclopaedia Britannica and NewCentury Dictionary, transverse obsolete medieval and oriental weapons,dinner gong, alabaster lamp, bowl pendant, vulcanite automatic telephonereceiver with adjacent directory, handtufted Axminster carpet with creamground and trellis border, loo table with pillar and claw legs, hearth withmassive firebrasses and ormolu mantel chronometer clock, guaranteedtimekeeper with cathedral chime, barometer with hygrographic chart,comfortable lounge settees and corner fitments, upholstered in ruby plushwith good springing and sunk centre, three banner Japanese screen andcuspidors (club style, rich winecoloured leather, gloss renewable with aminimum of labour by use of linseed oil and vinegar) and pyramidicallyprismatic central chandelier lustre, bentwood perch with fingertame parrot(expurgated language), embossed mural paper at /- per dozen withtransverse swags of carmine floral design and top crown frieze, staircase,three continuous flights at successive right angles, of varnished cleargrainedoak, treads and risers, newel, balusters and handrail, with steppedup paneldado, dressed with camphorated wax: bathroom, hot and cold supply,reclining and shower: water closet on mezzanine provided with opaquesinglepane oblong window, tipup seat, bracket lamp, brass tierod and brace,armrests, footstool and artistic oleograph on inner face of door: ditto,plain: servants apartments with separate sanitary and hygienic necessariesfor cook, general and betweenmaid (salary, rising by biennial unearnedincrements of  pounds, with comprehensive fidelity insurance, annual bonus( pound) and retiring allowance (based on the  system) after  yearsservice), pantry, buttery, larder, refrigerator, outoffices, coal and woodcellarage with winebin (still and sparkling vintages) for distinguishedguests, if entertained to dinner (evening dress), carbon monoxide gas supplythroughout.What additional attractions might the grounds contain?As addenda, a tennis and fives court, a shrubbery, a glass summerhousewith tropical palms, equipped in the best botanical manner, a rockery withwaterspray, a beehive arranged on humane principles, oval flowerbeds inrectangular grassplots set with eccentric ellipses of scarlet and chrometulips, blue scillas, crocuses, polyanthus, sweet William, sweet pea, lily ofthe valley (bulbs obtainable from sir James W. Mackey (Limited) wholesaleand retail seed and bulb merchants and nurserymen, agents for chemicalmanures,  Sackville street, upper), an orchard, kitchen garden and vineryprotected against illegal trespassers by glasstopped mural enclosures, alumbershed with padlock for various inventoried implements.As?Eeltraps, lobsterpots, fishingrods, hatchet, steelyard, grindstone,clodcrusher, swatheturner, carriagesack, telescope ladder,  tooth rake,washing clogs, haytedder, tumbling rake, billhook, paintpot, brush, hoe andso on.What improvements might be subsequently introduced?A rabbitry and fowlrun, a dovecote, a botanical conservatory,  hammocks(ladys and gentlemans), a sundial shaded and sheltered by laburnum orlilac trees, an exotically harmonically accorded Japanese tinkle gatebellaffixed to left lateral gatepost, a capacious waterbutt, a lawnmower withside delivery and grassbox, a lawnsprinkler with hydraulic hose.What facilities of transit were desirable?When citybound frequent connection by train or tram from their respectiveintermediate station or terminal. When countrybound velocipedes, achainless freewheel roadster cycle with side basketcar attached, or draughtconveyance, a donkey with wicker trap or smart phaeton with goodworking solidungular cob (roan gelding,  h).What might be the name of this erigible or erected residence?Bloom Cottage. Saint Leopolds. Flowerville.Could Bloom of  Eccles street foresee Bloom of Flowerville?In loose allwool garments with Harris tweed cap, price /, and usefulgarden boots with elastic gussets and wateringcan, planting aligned youngfirtrees, syringing, pruning, staking, sowing hayseed, trundling a weedladenwheelbarrow without excessive fatigue at sunset amid the scent ofnewmown hay, ameliorating the soil, multiplying wisdom, achievinglongevity.What syllabus of intellectual pursuits was simultaneously possible?Snapshot photography, comparative study of religions, folklore relative tovarious amatory and superstitious practices, contemplation of the celestialconstellations.What lighter recreations?Outdoor: garden and fieldwork, cycling on level macadamised causewaysascents of moderately high hills, natation in secluded fresh water andunmolested river boating in secure wherry or light curricle with kedgeanchor on reaches free from weirs and rapids (period of estivation),vespertinal perambulation or equestrian circumprocession with inspectionof sterile landscape and contrastingly agreeable cottagers fires of smokingpeat turves (period of hibernation). Indoor: discussion in tepid security ofunsolved historical and criminal problems: lecture of unexpurgated exoticerotic masterpieces: house carpentry with toolbox containing hammer, awlnails, screws, tintacks, gimlet, tweezers, bullnose plane and turnscrew.Might he become a gentleman farmer of field produce and live stock?Not impossibly, with  or  stripper cows,  pike of upland hay andrequisite farming implements, e.g., an end-to-end churn, a turnip pulper etc.What would be his civic functions and social status among the countyfamilies and landed gentry?Arranged successively in ascending powers of hierarchical order, that ofgardener, groundsman, cultivator, breeder, and at the zenith of his career,resident magistrate or justice of the peace with a family crest and coat ofarms and appropriate classical motto (Semper paratus), duly recorded inthe court directory (Bloom, Leopold P., M. P., P. C., K. P., L. L. D.(honoris causa), Bloomville, Dundrum) and mentioned in court andfashionable intelligence (Mr and Mrs Leopold Bloom have left Kingstownfor England).What course of action did he outline for himself in such capacity?A course that lay between undue clemency and excessive rigour: thedispensation in a heterogeneous society of arbitrary classes, incessantlyrearranged in terms of greater and lesser social inequality, of unbiassedhomogeneous indisputable justice, tempered with mitigants of the widestpossible latitude but exactable to the uttermost farthing with confiscation ofestate, real and personal, to the crown. Loyal to the highest constitutedpower in the land, actuated by an innate love of rectitude his aims would bethe strict maintenance of public order, the repression of many abusesthough not of all simultaneously (every measure of reform or retrenchmentbeing a preliminary solution to be contained by fluxion in the finalsolution), the upholding of the letter of the law (common, statute and lawmerchant) against all traversers in covin and trespassers acting incontravention of bylaws and regulations, all resuscitators (by trespass andpetty larceny of kindlings) of venville rights, obsolete by desuetude, allorotund instigators of international persecution, all perpetuators ofinternational animosities, all menial molestors of domestic conviviality, allrecalcitrant violators of domestic connubiality.Prove that he had loved rectitude from his earliest youth.To Master Percy Apjohn at High School in  he had divulged hisdisbelief in the tenets of the Irish (protestant) church (to which his fatherRudolf Virag (later Rudolph Bloom) had been converted from the Israeliticfaith and communion in  by the Society for promoting Christianityamong the jews) subsequently abjured by him in favour of Romancatholicism at the epoch of and with a view to his matrimony in . ToDaniel Magrane and Francis Wade in  during a juvenile friendship(terminated by the premature emigration of the former) he had advocatedduring nocturnal perambulations the political theory of colonial (e.g.Canadian) expansion and the evolutionary theories of Charles Darwin,expounded in The Descent of Man and The Origin of Species. In  hehad publicly expressed his adherence to the collective and nationaleconomic programme advocated by James Fintan Lalor, John FisherMurray, John Mitchel, J. F. X. OBrien and others, the agrarian policy ofMichael Davitt, the constitutional agitation of Charles Stewart Parnell(M. P. for Cork City), the programme of peace, retrenchment and reformof William Ewart Gladstone (M. P. for Midlothian, N. B.) and, in supportof his political convictions, had climbed up into a secure position amid theramifications of a tree on Northumberland road to see the entrance( February ) into the capital of a demonstrative torchlight processionof , torchbearers, divided into  trade corporations, bearing torches in escort of the marquess of Ripon and (honest) John Morley.How much and how did he propose to pay for this country residence?As per prospectus of the Industrious Foreign Acclimatised NationalisedFriendly Stateaided Building Society (incorporated ), a maximum of pounds per annum, being / of an assured income, derived from giltedgedsecurities, representing at  % simple interest on capital of  pounds(estimate of price at  years purchase), of which   to be paid onacquisition and the balance in the form of annual rent, viz.  poundsplus  % interest on the same,******~~repayable quarterly in equal annual instalments until extinction byamortisation of loan advanced for purchase within a period of  years,amounting to an annual rental of  pounds, headrent included, the titledeedsto remain in possession of the lender or lenders with a saving clauseenvisaging forced sale, foreclosure and mutual compensation in the event ofprotracted failure to pay the terms assigned, otherwise the messuage tobecome the absolute property of the tenant occupier upon expiry of theperiod of years stipulated.What rapid but insecure means to opulence might facilitate immediatepurchase?A private wireless telegraph which would transmit by dot and dash systemthe result of a national equine handicap (flat or steeplechase) of I or moremiles and furlongs won by an outsider at odds of  to  at hr  m p.m. at Ascot (Greenwich time), the message being received andavailable for betting purposes in Dublin at . p.m. (Dunsink time). Theunexpected discovery of an object of great monetary value (precious stone,valuable adhesive or impressed postage stamps ( schilling, mauve,imperforate, Hamburg, :  pence, rose, blue paper, perforate, GreatBritain, :  franc, stone, official, rouletted, diagonal surcharge,Luxemburg, ), antique dynastical ring, unique relic) in unusualrepositories or by unusual means: from the air (dropped by an eagle inflight), by fire (amid the carbonised remains of an incendiated edifice), inthe sea (amid flotsam, jetsam, lagan and derelict), on earth (in the gizzardof a comestible fowl). A Spanish prisoners donation of a distant treasure ofvaluables or specie or bullion lodged with a solvent banking corporationloo years previously at % compound interest of the collective worth of,, pounds stg (five million pounds sterling). A contract with aninconsiderate contractee for the delivery of  consignments of some givencommodity in consideration of cash payment on delivery per delivery at theinitial rate of d to be increased constantly in the geometrical progressionof  (d, d, d, d, d, d, s d, s d to  terms). A prepared scheme******~~several on above   linesbased on a study of the laws of probability to break the bank at MonteCarlo. A solution of the secular problem of the quadrature of the circle,government premium ,, pounds sterling.Was vast wealth acquirable through industrial channels?The reclamation of dunams of waste arenary soil, proposed in theprospectus of Agendath Netaim, Bleibtreustrasse, Berlin, W. , by thecultivation of orange plantations and melonfields and reafforestation. Theutilisation of waste paper, fells of sewer rodents, human excrementpossessing chemical properties, in view of the vast production of the first,vast number of the second and immense quantity of the third, every normalhuman being of average vitality and appetite producing annually, cancellingbyproducts of water, a sum total of  lbs. (mixed animal and vegetablediet), to be multiplied by ,,, the total population of Irelandaccording to census returns of .Were there schemes of wider scope?A scheme to be formulated and submitted for approval to the harbourcommissioners for the exploitation of white coal (hydraulic power),obtained by hydroelectric plant at peak of tide at Dublin bar or at head ofwater at Poulaphouca or Powerscourt or catchment basins of main streamsfor the economic production of , W. H. P. of electricity. A schemeto enclose the peninsular delta of the North Bull at Dollymount and erecton the space of the foreland, used for golf links and rifle ranges, anasphalted esplanade with casinos, booths, shooting galleries, hotels,boardinghouses, readingrooms, establishments for mixed bathing. Ascheme for the use of dogvans and goatvans for the delivery of earlymorning milk. A scheme for the development of Irish tourist traffic in andaround Dublin by means of petrolpropelled riverboats, plying in the fluvialfairway between Island bridge and Ringsend, charabancs, narrow gaugelocal railways, and pleasure steamers for coastwise navigation (/- perperson per day, guide (trilingual) included). A scheme for the repristinationof passenger and goods traffics over Irish waterways, when freed fromweedbeds. A scheme to connect by tramline the Cattle Market (NorthCircular road and Prussia street) with the quays (Sheriff street, lower, andEast Wall), parallel with the Link line railway laid (in conjunction with theGreat Southern and Western railway line) between the cattle park, Liffeyjunction, and terminus of Midland Great Western Railway  to  NorthWall, in proximity to the terminal stations or Dublin branches of GreatCentral Railway, Midland Railway of England, City of Dublin SteamPacket Company, Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway Company, Dublinand Glasgow Steam Packet Company, Glasgow, Dublin and LondonderrySteam Packet Company (Laird line), British and Irish Steam PacketCompany, Dublin and Morecambe Steamers, London and North WesternRailway Company, Dublin Port and Docks Board Landing Sheds andtransit sheds of Palgrave, Murphy and Company, steamship owners, agentsfor steamers from Mediterranean, Spain, Portugal, France, Belgium andHolland and for Liverpool Underwriters Association, the cost of acquiredrolling stock for animal transport and of additional mileage operated by theDublin United Tramways Company, limited, to be covered by graziersfees.Positing what protasis would the contraction for such several schemesbecome a natural and necessary apodosis?Given a guarantee equal to the sum sought, the support, by deed of gift andtransfer vouchers during donors lifetime or by bequest after donorspainless extinction, of eminent financiers (Blum Pasha, RothschildGuggenheim, Hirsch, Montefiore, Morgan, Rockefeller) possessingfortunes in  figures, amassed during a successful life, and joining capitalwith opportunity the thing required was done.What eventuality would render him independent of such wealth?The independent discovery of a goldseam of inexhaustible ore.For what reason did he meditate on schemes so difficult of realisation?It was one of his axioms that similar meditations or the automatic relationto himself of a narrative concerning himself or tranquil recollection of thepast when practised habitually before retiring for the night alleviatedfatigue and produced as a result sound repose and renovated vitality.His justifications?As a physicist he had learned that of the  years of complete human life atleast /, viz.  years are passed in sleep. As a philosopher he knew that atthe termination of any allotted life only an infinitesimal part of anypersons desires has been realised. As a physiologist he believed in theartificial placation of malignant agencies chiefly operative duringsomnolence. What did he fear?The committal of homicide or suicide during sleep by an aberration of thelight of reason, the incommensurable categorical intelligence situated in thecerebral convolutions.What were habitually his final meditations?Of some one sole unique advertisement to cause passers to stop in wonder,a poster novelty, with all extraneous accretions excluded, reduced to itssimplest and most efficient terms not exceeding the span of casual vision andcongruous with the velocity of modern life.What did the first drawer unlocked contain?A Vere Fosters handwriting copybook, property of Milly (Millicent)Bloom, certain pages of which bore diagram drawings, marked Papli,which showed a large globular head with  hairs erect,  eyes in profile,the trunk full front with  large buttons,  triangular foot:  fadingphotographs of queen Alexandra of England and of Maud Branscombe,actress and professional beauty: a Yuletide card, bearing on it apictorial representation of a parasitic plant, the legend Mizpah,the date Xmas , the name of the senders: from Mr + Mrs M. Comerford,the versicle: May this Yuletide bring to thee, Joy and peace andwelcome glee: a butt of red partly liquefied sealing wax, obtainedfrom the stores department of Messrs Helys, Ltd., , , and  Damestreet: a box containing the remainder of a gross of gilt "J" pennibs,obtained from same department of same firm: an old sandglass whichrolled containing sand which rolled: a sealed prophecy (never unsealed)written by Leopold Bloom in  concerning the consequences of thepassing into law of William Ewart Gladstones Home Rule bill of (never passed into law): a bazaar ticket, no , of S. Kevins CharityFair, price d,  prizes: an infantile epistle, dated, small em monday,reading: capital pee Papli comma capital aitch How are you note ofinterrogation capital eye I am very well full stop new paragraphsignature with flourishes capital em Milly no stop: a cameobrooch, property of Ellen Bloom (born Higgins), deceased: a cameoscarfpin, property of Rudolph Bloom (born Virag), deceased:  typewrittenletters, addressee, Henry Flower, c/o. P. O. Westland Row, addresser,Martha Clifford, c/o. P. O. Dolphins Barn: the transliterated name andaddress of the addresser of the  letters in reversed alphabeticboustrophedonic punctated quadrilinear cryptogram (vowels suppressed)N. IGS./WI. UU. OX/W. OKS. MH/Y. IM: a press cutting from an Englishweekly periodical Modern Society, subject corporal chastisement in girlsschools: a pink ribbon which had festooned an Easter egg in the year: two partly uncoiled rubber preservatives with reserve pockets,purchased by post from Box , P. O., Charing Cross, London, W. C.: pack of  dozen creamlaid envelopes and feintruled notepaper,watermarked, now reduced by : some assorted Austrian-Hungarian coins: coupons of the Royal and Privileged Hungarian Lottery: a lowpowermagnifying glass:  erotic photocards showing a) buccal coition betweennude senorita (rere presentation, superior position) and nude torero(fore presentation, inferior position) b) anal violation by male religious(fully clothed, eyes abject) of female religious (partly clothed, eyesdirect), purchased by post from Box , P. O., Charing Cross, London,W. C.: a press cutting of recipe for renovation of old tan boots: a Idadhesive stamp, lavender, of the reign of Queen Victoria: a chart of themeasurements of Leopold Bloom compiled before, during and after  monthsconsecutive use of Sandow-Whiteleys pulley exerciser (mens /-,athletes /-) viz. chest  in and  in, biceps  in and  in,**************************************~~ in line above and belowforearm  in and  in,thigh  in and in, calf in and in: prospectus of The Wonderworker, the worlds greatest remedy for rectalcomplaints, direct from Wonderworker, Coventry House, South Place,London E C, addressed (erroneously) to Mrs L. Bloom with briefaccompanying note commencing (erroneously): Dear Madam.Quote the textual terms in which the prospectus claimed advantages forthis thaumaturgic remedy.It heals and soothes while you sleep, in case of trouble in breaking wind,assists nature in the most formidable way, insuring instant relief indischarge of gases, keeping parts clean and free natural action, an initialoutlay of / making a new man of you and life worth living. Ladies findWonderworker especially useful, a pleasant surprise when they notedelightful result like a cool drink of fresh spring water on a sultry summersday. Recommend it to your lady and gentlemen friends, lasts a lifetime.Insert long round end. Wonderworker.Were there testimonials?Numerous. From clergyman, British naval officer, wellknown author, cityman, hospital nurse, lady, mother of five, absentminded beggar.How did absentminded beggars concluding testimonial conclude?What a pity the government did not supply our men with wonderworkersduring the South African campaign! What a relief it would have been!What object did Bloom add to this collection of objects?A th typewritten letter received by Henry Flower (let H. F. be L. B.) fromMartha Clifford (find M. C.).What pleasant reflection accompanied this action?The reflection that, apart from the letter in question, his magnetic face,form and address had been favourably received during the course of thepreceding day by a wife (Mrs Josephine Breen, born Josie Powell), a nurse,Miss Callan (Christian name unknown), a maid, Gertrude (Gerty, familyname unknown).What possibility suggested itself?The possibility of exercising virile power of fascination in the not immediatefuture after an expensive repast in a private apartment in the company of anelegant courtesan, of corporal beauty, moderately mercenary, variouslyinstructed, a lady by origin.What did the nd drawer contain?Documents: the birth certificate of Leopold Paula Bloom: an endowmentassurance policy of  pounds in the Scottish Widows Assurance Society,intestated Millicent (Milly) Bloom, coming into force at  years as withprofit policy of  pounds, // and  pounds at  years or death, years or death and death, respectively, or with profit policy (paidup) of// together with cash payment of //, at option: a bank passbookissued by the Ulster Bank, College Green branch showing statement ofa/c for halfyear ending  December , balance in depositors favour:// (eighteen pounds, fourteen shillings and sixpence, sterling), netpersonalty: certificate of possession of  pounds, Canadian  percent(inscribed) government stock (free of stamp duty): dockets of the CatholicCemeteries (Glasnevin) Committee, relative to a graveplot purchased: alocal press cutting concerning change of name by deedpoll.Quote the textual terms of this notice.I, Rudolph Virag, now resident at no  Clanbrassil street, Dublin,formerly of Szombathely in the kingdom of Hungary, hereby give noticethat I have assumed and intend henceforth upon all occasions and at alltimes to be known by the name of Rudolph Bloom.What other objects relative to Rudolph Bloom (born Virag) were in the nddrawer?An indistinct daguerreotype of Rudolf Virag and his father Leopold Viragexecuted in the year  in the portrait atelier of their (respectively)st and nd cousin, Stefan Virag of Szesfehervar, Hungary. An ancienthaggadah book in which a pair of hornrimmed convex spectacles insertedmarked the passage of thanksgiving in the ritual prayers for Pessach(Passover): a photocard of the Queens Hotel, Ennis, proprietor, RudolphBloom: an envelope addressed: To My Dear Son Leopold.What fractions of phrases did the lecture of those five whole words evoke?Tomorrow will be a week that I received... it is no use Leopold tobe ... with your dear mother ... that is not more to stand ... toher ... all for me is out ... be kind to Athos, Leopold ... my dearson ... always ... of me ... das Herz ... Gott ... dein ...What reminiscences of a human subject suffering from progressivemelancholia did these objects evoke in Bloom?An old man, widower, unkempt of hair, in bed, with head covered, sighing:an infirm dog, Athos: aconite, resorted to by increasing doses of grains andscruples as a palliative of recrudescent neuralgia: the face in death of aseptuagenarian, suicide by poison.Why did Bloom experience a sentiment of remorse?Because in immature impatience he had treated with disrespect certainbeliefs and practices.As?The prohibition of the use of fleshmeat and milk at one meal: thehebdomadary symposium of incoordinately abstract, perfervidly concretemercantile coexreligionist excompatriots: the circumcision of male infants:the supernatural character of Judaic scripture: the ineffability of thetetragrammaton: the sanctity of the sabbath.How did these beliefs and practices now appear to him?Not more rational than they had then appeared, not less rational than otherbeliefs and practices now appeared.What first reminiscence had he of Rudolph Bloom (deceased)?Rudolph Bloom (deceased) narrated to his son Leopold Bloom (aged ) aretrospective arrangement of migrations and settlements in and betweenDublin, London, Florence, Milan, Vienna, Budapest, Szombathely withstatements of satisfaction (his grandfather having seen Maria Theresia,empress of Austria, queen of Hungary), with commercial advice (havingtaken care of pence, the pounds having taken care of themselves). LeopoldBloom (aged ) had accompanied these narrations by constant consultationof a geographical map of Europe (political) and by suggestions for theestablishment of affiliated business premises in the various centresmentioned.Had time equally but differently obliterated the memory of these migrationsin narrator and listener?In narrator by the access of years and in consequence of the use of narcotictoxin: in listener by the access of years and in consequence of the action ofdistraction upon vicarious experiences.What idiosyncracies of the narrator were concomitant products ofamnesia?Occasionally he ate without having previously removed his hat.Occasionally he drank voraciously the juice of gooseberry fool from aninclined plate. Occasionally he removed from his lips the traces of food bymeans of a lacerated envelope or other accessible fragment of paper.What two phenomena of senescence were more frequent?The myopic digital calculation of coins, eructation consequent uponrepletion.What object offered partial consolation for these reminiscences?The endowment policy, the bank passbook, the certificate of the possessionof scrip.Reduce Bloom by cross multiplication of reverses of fortune, from whichthese supports protected him, and by elimination of all positive values to anegligible negative irrational unreal quantity.Successively, in descending helotic order: Poverty: that of the outdoorhawker of imitation jewellery, the dun for the recovery of bad and doubtfuldebts, the poor rate and deputy cess collector. Mendicancy: that of thefraudulent bankrupt with negligible assets paying d in the pound,*******************************************************~~sandwichman, distributor of throwaways, nocturnal vagrant, insinuatingsycophant, maimed sailor, blind stripling, superannuated bailiffs man,marfeast, lickplate, spoilsport, pickthank, eccentric public laughingstockseated on bench of public park under discarded perforated umbrella.Destitution: the inmate of Old Mans House (Royal Hospital)Kilmainham, the inmate of Simpsons Hospital for reduced but respectablemen permanently disabled by gout or want of sight. Nadir of misery: theaged impotent disfranchised ratesupported moribund lunatic pauper.With which attendant indignities?The unsympathetic indifference of previously amiable females, the contemptof muscular males, the acceptance of fragments of bread, the simulatedignorance of casual acquaintances, the latration of illegitimate unlicensedvagabond dogs, the infantile discharge of decomposed vegetable missiles,worth little or nothing, nothing or less than nothing.By what could such a situation be precluded?By decease (change of state): by departure (change of place).Which preferably?The latter, by the line of least resistance.What considerations rendered departure not entirely undesirable?Constant cohabitation impeding mutual toleration of personal defects. Thehabit of independent purchase increasingly cultivated. The necessity tocounteract by impermanent sojourn the permanence of arrest.What considerations rendered departure not irrational?The parties concerned, uniting, had increased and multiplied, which beingdone, offspring produced and educed to maturity, the parties, if notdisunited were obliged to reunite for increase and multiplication, which wasabsurd, to form by reunion the original couple of uniting parties, which wasimpossible.What considerations rendered departure desirable?The attractive character of certain localities in Ireland and abroad, asrepresented in general geographical maps of polychrome design or inspecial ordnance survey charts by employment of scale numerals andhachures.In Ireland?The cliffs of Moher, the windy wilds of Connemara, lough Neagh withsubmerged petrified city, the Giants Causeway, Fort Camden and FortCarlisle, the Golden Vale of Tipperary, the islands of Aran, the pastures ofroyal Meath, Brigids elm in Kildare, the Queens Island shipyard inBelfast, the Salmon Leap, the lakes of Killarney.Abroad?Ceylon (with spicegardens supplying tea to Thomas Kernan, agent forPulbrook, Robertson and Co,  Mincing Lane, London, E. C.,  Damestreet, Dublin), Jerusalem, the holy city (with mosque of Omar and gate ofDamascus, goal of aspiration), the straits of Gibraltar (the uniquebirthplace of Marion Tweedy), the Parthenon (containing statues of nudeGrecian divinities), the Wall street money market (which controlledinternational finance), the Plaza de Toros at La Linea, Spain (whereOHara of the Camerons had slain the bull), Niagara (over which nohuman being had passed with impunity), the land of the Eskimos (eaters ofsoap), the forbidden country of Thibet (from which no traveller returns),the bay of Naples (to see which was to die), the Dead Sea.Under what guidance, following what signs?At sea, septentrional, by night the polestar, located at the point ofintersection of the right line from beta to alpha in Ursa Maior producedand divided externally at omega and the hypotenuse of the rightangledtriangle formed by the line alpha omega so produced and the line alphadelta of Ursa Maior. On land, meridional, a bispherical moon, revealed inimperfect varying phases of lunation through the posterior interstice of theimperfectly occluded skirt of a carnose negligent perambulating female, apillar of the cloud by day.What public advertisement would divulge the occultation of the departed? pounds reward, lost, stolen or strayed from his residence  Eccles street,missing gent about , answering to the name of Bloom, Leopold (Poldy), height ft  inches, full build, olive complexion, may have since grown a beard,****~~when last seen was wearing a black suit. Above sum will be paid forinformation leading to his discovery.What universal binomial denominations would be his as entity andnonentity?Assumed by any or known to none. Everyman or Noman.What tributes his?Honour and gifts of strangers, the friends of Everyman. A nymphimmortal, beauty, the bride of Noman.Would the departed never nowhere nohow reappear?Ever he would wander, selfcompelled, to the extreme limit of his cometaryorbit, beyond the fixed stars and variable suns and telescopic planets,astronomical waifs and strays, to the extreme boundary of space, passingfrom land to land, among peoples, amid events. Somewhere imperceptiblyhe would hear and somehow reluctantly, suncompelled, obey the summonsof recall. Whence, disappearing from the constellation of the NorthernCrown he would somehow reappear reborn above delta in the constellationof Cassiopeia and after incalculable eons of peregrination return anestranged avenger, a wreaker of justice on malefactors, a dark crusader, asleeper awakened, with financial resources (by supposition) surpassingthose of Rothschild or the silver king.What would render such return irrational?An unsatisfactory equation between an exodus and return in time throughreversible space and an exodus and return in space through irreversibletime.What play of forces, inducing inertia, rendered departure undesirable?The lateness of the hour, rendering procrastinatory: the obscurity of thenight, rendering invisible: the uncertainty of thoroughfares, renderingperilous: the necessity for repose, obviating movement: the proximity of anoccupied bed, obviating research: the anticipation of warmth (human)tempered with coolness (linen), obviating desire and rendering desirable:the statue of Narcissus, sound without echo, desired desire.What advantages were possessed by an occupied, as distinct from anunoccupied bed?The removal of nocturnal solitude, the superior quality of human (maturefemale) to inhuman (hotwaterjar) calefaction, the stimulation of matutinalcontact, the economy of mangling done on the premises in the case oftrousers accurately folded and placed lengthwise between the springmattress (striped) and the woollen mattress (biscuit section).What past consecutive causes, before rising preapprehended, ofaccumulated fatigue did Bloom, before rising, silently recapitulate?The preparation of breakfast (burnt offering): intestinal congestion andpremeditative defecation (holy of holies): the bath (rite of John): thefuneral (rite of Samuel): the advertisement of Alexander Keyes (Urim andThummim): the unsubstantial lunch (rite of Melchisedek): the visit tomuseum and national library (holy place): the bookhunt along Bedfordrow, Merchants Arch, Wellington Quay (Simchath Torah): the music inthe Ormond Hotel (Shira Shirim): the altercation with a truculenttroglodyte in Bernard Kiernans premises (holocaust): a blank period oftime including a cardrive, a visit to a house of mourning, a leavetaking(wilderness): the eroticism produced by feminine exhibitionism (rite ofOnan): the prolonged delivery of Mrs Mina Purefoy (heave offering): thevisit to the disorderly house of Mrs Bella Cohen,  Tyrone street, lowerand subsequent brawl and chance medley in Beaver street (Armageddon)-nocturnal perambulation to and from the cabmans shelter, Butt Bridge(atonement).What selfimposed enigma did Bloom about to rise in order to go so as toconclude lest he should not conclude involuntarily apprehend?The cause of a brief sharp unforeseen heard loud lone crack emitted by theinsentient material of a strainveined timber table.What selfinvolved enigma did Bloom risen, going, gathering multicolouredmultiform multitudinous garments, voluntarily apprehending, notcomprehend?Who was MIntosh?What selfevident enigma pondered with desultory constancy during years did Bloom now, having effected natural obscurity by the extinction ofartificial light, silently suddenly comprehend?Where was Moses when the candle went out?What imperfections in a perfect day did Bloom, walking, charged withcollected articles of recently disvested male wearing apparel, silently,successively, enumerate?A provisional failure to obtain renewal of an advertisement: to obtain acertain quantity of tea from Thomas Kernan (agent for Pulbrook,Robertson and Co,  Dame Street, Dublin, and  Mincing Lane, LondonE. C.): to certify the presence or absence of posterior rectal orifice in thecase of Hellenic female divinities: to obtain admission (gratuitous or paid)to the performance of Leah by Mrs Bandmann Palmer at the GaietyTheatre, , , ,  South King street.What impression of an absent face did Bloom, arrested, silently recall?The face of her father, the late Major Brian Cooper Tweedy, Royal DublinFusiliers, of Gibraltar and Rehoboth, Dolphins Barn.What recurrent impressions of the same were possible by hypothesis?Retreating, at the terminus of the Great Northern Railway, Amiens street,with constant uniform acceleration, along parallel lines meeting at infinity,if produced: along parallel lines, reproduced from infinity, with constantuniform retardation, at the terminus of the Great Northern Railway,Amiens street, returning.What miscellaneous effects of female personal wearing apparel wereperceived by him?A pair of new inodorous halfsilk black ladies hose, a pair of new violetgarters, a pair of outsize ladies drawers of India mull, cut on generouslines, redolent of opoponax, jessamine and Murattis Turkish cigarettes andcontaining a long bright steel safety pin, folded curvilinear, a camisole ofbatiste with thin lace border, an accordion underskirt of blue silk moirette,all these objects being disposed irregularly on the top of a rectangulartrunk, quadruple battened, having capped corners, with multicolouredlabels, initialled on its fore side in white lettering B. C. T. (Brian CooperTweedy).What impersonal objects were perceived?A commode, one leg fractured, totally covered by square cretonne cutting,apple design, on which rested a ladys black straw hat. Orangekeyed ware,bought of Henry Price, basket, fancy goods, chinaware and ironmongerymanufacturer, , ,  Moore street, disposed irregularly on thewashstand and floor and consisting of basin, soapdish and brushtray (onthe washstand, together), pitcher and night article (on the floor, separate).Blooms acts?He deposited the articles of clothing on a chair, removed his remainingarticles of clothing, took from beneath the bolster at the head of the bed afolded long white nightshirt, inserted his head and arms into the properapertures of the nightshirt, removed a pillow from the head to the foot ofthe bed, prepared the bedlinen accordingly and entered the bed.How?With circumspection, as invariably when entering an abode (his own or nothis own): with solicitude, the snakespiral springs of the mattress beingold, the brass quoits and pendent viper radii loose and tremulous understress and strain: prudently, as entering a lair or ambush of lust oradders: lightly, the less to disturb: reverently, the bed of conceptionand of birth, of consummation of marriage and of breach of marriage, ofsleep and of death.What did his limbs, when gradually extended, encounter?New clean bedlinen, additional odours, the presence of a human form,female, hers, the imprint of a human form, male, not his, some crumbs,some flakes of potted meat, recooked, which he removed.If he had smiled why would he have smiled?To reflect that each one who enters imagines himself to be the first toenter whereas he is always the last term of a preceding series even ifthe first term of a succeeding one, each imagining himself to be first,last, only and alone whereas he is neither first nor last nor only noralone in a series originating in and repeated to infinity.What preceding series?Assuming Mulvey to be the first term of his series, Penrose, BartelldArcy, professor Goodwin, Julius Mastiansky, John Henry Menton, FatherBernard Corrigan, a farmer at the Royal Dublin Societys Horse Show,Maggot OReilly, Matthew Dillon, Valentine Blake Dillon (Lord Mayor ofDublin), Christopher Callinan, Lenehan, an Italian organgrinder, anunknown gentleman in the Gaiety Theatre, Benjamin Dollard, SimonDedalus, Andrew (Pisser) Burke, Joseph Cuffe, Wisdom Hely, AldermanJohn Hooper, Dr Francis Brady, Father Sebastian of Mount Argus, abootblack at the General Post Office, Hugh E. (Blazes) Boylan and so eachand so on to no last term.What were his reflections concerning the last member of this series and lateoccupant of the bed?Reflections on his vigour (a bounder), corporal proportion (a billsticker),commercial ability (a bester), impressionability (a boaster).Why for the observer impressionability in addition to vigour, corporalproportion and commercial ability?Because he had observed with augmenting frequency in the precedingmembers of the same series the same concupiscence, inflammablytransmitted, first with alarm, then with understanding, then with desire,finally with fatigue, with alternating symptoms of epicene comprehensionand apprehension.With what antagonistic sentiments were his subsequent reflections affected?Envy, jealousy, abnegation, equanimity.Envy?Of a bodily and mental male organism specially adapted for thesuperincumbent posture of energetic human copulation and energetic pistonand cylinder movement necessary for the complete satisfaction of a constantbut not acute concupiscence resident in a bodily and mental femaleorganism, passive but not obtuse.Jealousy?Because a nature full and volatile in its free state, was alternately theagent and reagent of attraction. Because attraction between agent(s) andreagent(s) at all instants varied, with inverse proportion of increase anddecrease, with incessant circular extension and radial reentrance. Becausethe controlled contemplation of the fluctuation of attraction produced, ifdesired, a fluctuation of pleasure.Abnegation?In virtue of a) acquaintance initiated in September  in the establishmentof George Mesias, merchant tailor and outfitter,  Eden Quay, b) hospitalityextended and received in kind, reciprocated and reappropriated in person,c) comparative youth subject to impulses of ambition and magnanimity,colleagual altruism and amorous egoism, d) extraracial attraction,intraracial inhibition, supraracial prerogative, e) an imminent provincialmusical tour, common current expenses, net proceeds divided.Equanimity?As as natural as any and every natural act of a nature expressed orunderstood executed in natured nature by natural creatures in accordancewith his, her and their natured natures, of dissimilar similarity. As not socalamitous as a cataclysmic annihilation of the planet in consequence of acollision with a dark sun. As less reprehensible than theft, highway robbery,cruelty to children and animals, obtaining money under false pretences,forgery, embezzlement, misappropriation of public money, betrayal ofpublic trust, malingering, mayhem, corruption of minors, criminal libel,blackmail, contempt of court, arson, treason, felony, mutiny on the highseas, trespass, burglary, jailbreaking, practice of unnatural vice, desertionfrom armed forces in the field, perjury, poaching, usury, intelligence withthe kings enemies, impersonation, criminal assault, manslaughter, wilfuland premeditated murder. As not more abnormal than all other parallelprocesses of adaptation to altered conditions of existence, resulting in areciprocal equilibrium between the bodily organism and its attendantcircumstances, foods, beverages, acquired habits, indulged inclinations,significant disease. As more than inevitable, irreparable.Why more abnegation than jealousy, less envy than equanimity?From outrage (matrimony) to outrage (adultery) there arose nought butoutrage (copulation) yet the matrimonial violator of the matrimoniallyviolated had not been outraged by the adulterous violator of theadulterously violated.What retribution, if any?Assassination, never, as two wrongs did not make one right. Duel bycombat, no. Divorce, not now. Exposure by mechanical artifice (automaticbed) or individual testimony (concealed ocular witnesses), not yet. Suit fordamages by legal influence or simulation of assault with evidence of injuriessustained (selfinflicted), not impossibly. Hushmoney by moral influencepossibly. If any, positively, connivance, introduction of emulation (material,a prosperous rival agency of publicity: moral, a successful rival agent ofintimacy), depreciation, alienation, humiliation, separation protecting theone separated from the other, protecting the separator from both.By what reflections did he, a conscious reactor against the void ofincertitude, justify to himself his sentiments?The preordained frangibility of the hymen: the presupposed intangibility ofthe thing in itself: the incongruity and disproportion between theselfprolonging tension of the thing proposed to be done and theselfabbreviating relaxation of the thing done; the fallaciously inferreddebility of the female: the muscularity of the male: the variations of ethicalcodes: the natural grammatical transition by inversion involving noalteration of sense of an aorist preterite proposition (parsed as masculinesubject, monosyllabic onomatopoeic transitive verb with direct feminineobject) from the active voice into its correlative aorist preteriteproposition (parsed as feminine subject, auxiliary verb and quasimonosyllabiconomatopoeic past participle with complementary masculine agent) in thepassive voice: the continued product of seminators by generation: thecontinual production of semen by distillation: the futility of triumph orprotest or vindication: the inanity of extolled virtue: the lethargy ofnescient matter: the apathy of the stars.In what final satisfaction did these antagonistic sentiments and reflections,reduced to their simplest forms, converge?Satisfaction at the ubiquity in eastern and western terrestrial hemispheres,in all habitable lands and islands explored or unexplored (the land of themidnight sun, the islands of the blessed, the isles of Greece, the land ofpromise), of adipose anterior and posterior female hemispheres, redolent ofmilk and honey and of excretory sanguine and seminal warmth, reminiscentof secular families of curves of amplitude, insusceptible of moods ofimpression or of contrarieties of expression, expressive of mute immutablemature animality.The visible signs of antesatisfaction?An approximate erection: a solicitous adversion: a gradual elevation: atentative revelation: a silent contemplation.Then?He kissed the plump mellow yellow smellow melons of her rump, on eachplump melonous hemisphere, in their mellow yellow furrow, with obscureprolonged provocative melonsmellonous osculation.The visible signs of postsatisfaction?A silent contemplation: a tentative velation: a gradual abasement: asolicitous aversion: a proximate erection.What followed this silent action?Somnolent invocation, less somnolent recognition, incipient excitation,catechetical interrogation.With what modifications did the narrator reply to this interrogation?Negative: he omitted to mention the clandestine correspondence betweenMartha Clifford and Henry Flower, the public altercation at, in and in thevicinity of the licensed premises of Bernard Kiernan and Co, Limited, , and  Little Britain street, the erotic provocation and response theretocaused by the exhibitionism of Gertrude (Gerty), surname unknown.Positive: he included mention of a performance by Mrs Bandmann Palmerof Leah at the Gaiety Theatre, , , ,  South King street, aninvitation to supper at Wynns (Murphys) Hotel, ,  and  LowerAbbey street, a volume of peccaminous pornographical tendency entituledSweets of Sin, anonymous author a gentleman of fashion, a temporaryconcussion caused by a falsely calculated movement in the course of apostcenal gymnastic display, the victim (since completely recovered) beingStephen Dedalus, professor and author, eldest surviving son of SimonDedalus, of no fixed occupation, an aeronautical feat executed by him(narrator) in the presence of a witness, the professor and authoraforesaid, with promptitude of decision and gymnastic flexibility.Was the narration otherwise unaltered by modifications?Absolutely.Which event or person emerged as the salient point of his narration?Stephen Dedalus, professor and author.What limitations of activity and inhibitions of conjugal rights wereperceived by listener and narrator concerning themselves during the courseof this intermittent and increasingly more laconic narration?By the listener a limitation of fertility inasmuch as marriage had beencelebrated  calendar month after the th anniversary of her birth (September ), viz.  October, and consummated on the same date withfemale issue born  June , having been anticipatorily consummated onthe lo September of the same year and complete carnal intercourse, withejaculation of semen within the natural female organ, having last takenplace  weeks previous, viz.  November , to the birth on December  of second (and only male) issue, deceased  January ,aged  days, there remained a period of  years,  months and  daysduring which carnal intercourse had been incomplete, without ejaculationof semen within the natural female organ. By the narrator a limitation ofactivity, mental and corporal, inasmuch as complete mental intercoursebetween himself and the listener had not taken place since theconsummation of puberty, indicated by catamenic hemorrhage, of thefemale issue of narrator and listener,  September , there remained aperiod of  months and  day during which, in consequence of apreestablished natural comprehension in incomprehension between theconsummated females (listener and issue), complete corporal liberty ofaction had been circumscribed.How?By various reiterated feminine interrogation concerning the masculinedestination whither, the place where, the time at which, the duration forwhich, the object with which in the case of temporary absences, projectedor effected.What moved visibly above the listeners and the narrators invisiblethoughts?The upcast reflection of a lamp and shade, an inconstant series ofconcentric circles of varying gradations of light and shadow.In what directions did listener and narrator lie?Listener, S. E. by E.: Narrator, N. W. by W.: on the rd parallel oflatitude, N., and th meridian of longitude, W.: at an angle of  degrees tothe terrestrial equator.In what state of rest or motion?At rest relatively to themselves and to each other. In motion being each andboth carried westward, forward and rereward respectively, by the properperpetual motion of the earth through everchanging tracks ofneverchanging space.In what posture?Listener: reclined semilaterally, left, left hand under head, right legextended in a straight line and resting on left leg, flexed, in theattitude of Gea-Tellus, fulfilled, recumbent, big with seed. Narrator:reclined laterally, left, with right and left legs flexed, theindex finger and thumb of the right hand resting on the bridge ofthe nose, in the attitude depicted in a snapshot photograph made byPercy Apjohn, the childman weary, the manchild in the womb.Womb? Weary?He rests. He has travelled.With?Sinbad the Sailor and Tinbad the Tailor and Jinbad the Jailer and Whinbadthe Whaler and Ninbad the Nailer and Finbad the Failer and Binbad theBailer and Pinbad the Pailer and Minbad the Mailer and Hinbad the Hailerand Rinbad the Railer and Dinbad the Kailer and Vinbad the Quailer andLinbad the Yailer and Xinbad the Phthailer.When?Going to dark bed there was a square round Sinbad the Sailor rocs auksegg in the night of the bed of all the auks of the rocs of Darkinbad theBrightdayler.Where?[]Yes because he never did a thing like that before as ask to get hisbreakfast in bed with a couple of eggs since the City Arms hotel when heused to be pretending to be laid up with a sick voice doing his highness tomake himself interesting for that old faggot Mrs Riordan that he thought hehad a great leg of and she never left us a farthing all for masses for herselfand her soul greatest miser ever was actually afraid to lay out d for hermethylated spirit telling me all her ailments she had too much old chat inher about politics and earthquakes and the end of the world let us have a bitof fun first God help the world if all the women were her sort down onbathingsuits and lownecks of course nobody wanted her to wear them Isuppose she was pious because no man would look at her twice I hope Illnever be like her a wonder she didnt want us to cover our faces but she wasa welleducated woman certainly and her gabby talk about Mr Riordan hereand Mr Riordan there I suppose he was glad to get shut of her and her dogsmelling my fur and always edging to get up under my petticoats especiallythen still I like that in him polite to old women like that and waiters andbeggars too hes not proud out of nothing but not always if ever he gotanything really serious the matter with him its much better for them to gointo a hospital where everything is clean but I suppose Id have to dring itinto him for a month yes and then wed have a hospital nurse next thing onthe carpet have him staying there till they throw him out or a nun maybelike the smutty photo he has shes as much a nun as Im not yes becausetheyre so weak and puling when theyre sick they want a woman to get wellif his nose bleeds youd think it was O tragic and that dyinglooking one offthe south circular when he sprained his foot at the choir party at thesugarloaf Mountain the day I wore that dress Miss Stack bringing himflowers the worst old ones she could find at the bottom of the basketanything at all to get into a mans bedroom with her old maids voice tryingto imagine he was dying on account of her to never see thy face againthough he looked more like a man with his beard a bit grown in the bedfather was the same besides I hate bandaging and dosing when he cut histoe with the razor paring his corns afraid hed get bloodpoisoning but if itwas a thing I was sick then wed see what attention only of course thewoman hides it not to give all the trouble they do yes he came somewhereIm sure by his appetite anyway love its not or hed be off his feed thinking ofher so either it was one of those night women if it was down there he wasreally and the hotel story he made up a pack of lies to hide it planning itHynes kept me who did I meet ah yes I met do you remember Menton andwho else who let me see that big babbyface I saw him and he not longmarried flirting with a young girl at Pooles Myriorama and turned my backon him when he slinked out looking quite conscious what harm but he hadthe impudence to make up to me one time well done to him mouth almightyand his boiled eyes of all the big stupoes I ever met and thats called asolicitor only for I hate having a long wrangle in bed or else if its not thatits some little bitch or other he got in with somewhere or picked up on thesly if they only knew him as well as I do yes because the day before yesterdayhe was scribbling something a letter when I came into the front room to showhim Dignams death in the paper as if something told me and he covered itup with the blottingpaper pretending to be thinking about business so veryprobably that was it to somebody who thinks she has a softy in him becauseall men get a bit like that at his age especially getting on to forty he isnow so as to wheedle any money she can out of him no fool like an old fool andthen the usual kissing my bottom was to hide it not that I care two strawsnow who he does it with or knew before that way though Id like to find outso long as I dont have the two of them under my nose all the time like thatslut that Mary we had in Ontario terrace padding out her false bottom toexcite him bad enough to get the smell of those painted women off him onceor twice I had a suspicion by getting him to come near me when I found thelong hair on his coat without that one when I went into the kitchenpretending he was drinking water  woman is not enough for them it wasall his fault of course ruining servants then proposing that she could eat atour table on Christmas day if you please O no thank you not in my housestealing my potatoes and the oysters / per doz going out to see her aunt ifyou please common robbery so it was but I was sure he had something onwith that one it takes me to find out a thing like that he said you have noproof it was her proof O yes her aunt was very fond of oysters but I toldher what I thought of her suggesting me to go out to be alone with her Iwouldnt lower myself to spy on them the garters I found in her room theFriday she was out that was enough for me a little bit too much her faceswelled up on her with temper when I gave her her weeks notice I saw tothat better do without them altogether do out the rooms myself quicker onlyfor the damn cooking and throwing out the dirt I gave it to him anyhoweither she or me leaves the house I couldnt even touch him if I thought hewas with a dirty barefaced liar and sloven like that one denying it up to myface and singing about the place in the W C too because she knew she wastoo well off yes because he couldnt possibly do without it that long so hemust do it somewhere and the last time he came on my bottom when was itthe night Boylan gave my hand a great squeeze going along by the Tolka inmy hand there steals another I just pressed the back of his like that with mythumb to squeeze back singing the young May moon shes beaming lovebecause he has an idea about him and me hes not such a fool he said Imdining out and going to the Gaiety though Im not going to give him thesatisfaction in any case God knows hes a change in a way not to be alwaysand ever wearing the same old hat unless I paid some nicelooking boy to doit since I cant do it myself a young boy would like me Id confuse him a littlealone with him if we were Id let him see my garters the new ones and makehim turn red looking at him seduce him I know what boys feel with thatdown on their cheek doing that frigging drawing out the thing by the hourquestion and answer would you do this that and the other with the coalmanyes with a bishop yes I would because I told him about some dean or bishopwas sitting beside me in the jews temples gardens when I was knitting thatwoollen thing a stranger to Dublin what place was it and so on about themonuments and he tired me out with statues encouraging him making himworse than he is who is in your mind now tell me who are you thinking ofwho is it tell me his name who tell me who the german Emperor is it yesimagine Im him think of him can you feel him trying to make a whore of mewhat he never will he ought to give it up now at this age of his life simplyruination for any woman and no satisfaction in it pretending to like it tillhe comes and then finish it off myself anyway and it makes your lips paleanyhow its done now once and for all with all the talk of the world about itpeople make its only the first time after that its just the ordinary do it andthink no more about it why cant you kiss a man without going andmarrying him first you sometimes love to wildly when you feel that way sonice all over you you cant help yourself I wish some man or other wouldtake me sometime when hes there and kiss me in his arms theres nothinglike a kiss long and hot down to your soul almost paralyses you then I hatethat confession when I used to go to Father Corrigan he touched me fatherand what harm if he did where and I said on the canal bank like a fool butwhereabouts on your person my child on the leg behind high up was it yesrather high up was it where you sit down yes O Lord couldnt he say bottomright out and have done with it what has that got to do with it and did youwhatever way he put it I forget no father and I always think of the realfather what did he want to know for when I already confessed it to God hehad a nice fat hand the palm moist always I wouldnt mind feeling it neitherwould he Id say by the bullneck in his horsecollar I wonder did he know mein the box I could see his face he couldnt see mine of course hed never turnor let on still his eyes were red when his father died theyre lost for a womanof course must be terrible when a man cries let alone them Id like to beembraced by one in his vestments and the smell of incense off him like thepope besides theres no danger with a priest if youre married hes too carefulabout himself then give something to H H the pope for a penance I wonderwas he satisfied with me one thing I didnt like his slapping me behind goingaway so familiarly in the hall though I laughed Im not a horse or an ass amI I suppose he was thinking of his fathers I wonder is he awake thinking ofme or dreaming am I in it who gave him that flower he said he bought hesmelt of some kind of drink not whisky or stout or perhaps the sweety kindof paste they stick their bills up with some liqueur Id like to sip thoserichlooking green and yellow expensive drinks those stagedoor johnniesdrink with the opera hats I tasted once with my finger dipped out of thatAmerican that had the squirrel talking stamps with father he had all hecould do to keep himself from falling asleep after the last time after we tookthe port and potted meat it had a fine salty taste yes because I felt lovelyand tired myself and fell asleep as sound as a top the moment I poppedstraight into bed till that thunder woke me up God be merciful to us I thoughtthe heavens were coming down about us to punish us when I blessed myselfand said a Hail Mary like those awful thunderbolts in Gibraltar as if theworld was coming to an end and then they come and tell you theres no Godwhat could you do if it was running and rushing about nothing only makean act of contrition the candle I lit that evening in Whitefriars streetchapel for the month of May see it brought its luck though hed scoff if heheard because he never goes to church mass or meeting he says your soul youhave no soul inside only grey matter because he doesnt know what it is tohave one yes when I lit the lamp because he must have come  or  timeswith that tremendous big red brute of a thing he has I thought the vein orwhatever the dickens they call it was going to burst though his nose is notso big after I took off all my things with the blinds down after my hoursdressing and perfuming and combing it like iron or some kind of a thickcrowbar standing all the time he must have eaten oysters I think a fewdozen he was in great singing voice no I never in all my life felt anyone hadone the size of that to make you feel full up he must have eaten a wholesheep after whats the idea making us like that with a big hole in the middleof us or like a Stallion driving it up into you because thats all they wantout of you with that determined vicious look in his eye I had to halfshut myeyes still he hasnt such a tremendous amount of spunk in him when I madehim pull out and do it on me considering how big it is so much the better incase any of it wasnt washed out properly the last time I let him finish it inme nice invention they made for women for him to get all the pleasure but ifsomeone gave them a touch of it themselves theyd know what I wentthrough with Milly nobody would believe cutting her teeth too and MinaPurefoys husband give us a swing out of your whiskers filling her up with achild or twins once a year as regular as the clock always with a smell ofchildren off her the one they called budgers or something like a nigger witha shock of hair on it Jesusjack the child is a black the last time I was therea squad of them falling over one another and bawling you couldnt hear yourears supposed to be healthy not satisfied till they have us swollen out likeelephants or I dont know what supposing I risked having another not offhim though still if he was married Im sure hed have a fine strong child but Idont know Poldy has more spunk in him yes thatd be awfully jolly Isuppose it was meeting Josie Powell and the funeral and thinking about meand Boylan set him off well he can think what he likes now if thatll do himany good I know they were spooning a bit when I came on the scene he wasdancing and sitting out with her the night of Georgina Simpsonshousewarming and then he wanted to ram it down my neck it was onaccount of not liking to see her a wallflower that was why we had thestandup row over politics he began it not me when he said about Our Lordbeing a carpenter at last he made me cry of course a woman is so sensitiveabout everything I was fuming with myself after for giving in only for Iknew he was gone on me and the first socialist he said He was he annoyedme so much I couldnt put him into a temper still he knows a lot of mixedupthings especially about the body and the inside I often wanted to study upthat myself what we have inside us in that family physician I could alwayshear his voice talking when the room was crowded and watch him after thatI pretended I had a coolness on with her over him because he used to be abit on the jealous side whenever he asked who are you going to and I saidover to Floey and he made me the present of Byrons poems and thethree pairs of gloves so that finished that I could quite easily get him tomake it up any time I know how Id even supposing he got in with her againand was going out to see her somewhere Id know if he refused to eat theonions I know plenty of ways ask him to tuck down the collar of my blouseor touch him with my veil and gloves on going out I kiss then would sendthem all spinning however alright well see then let him go to her she ofcourse would only be too delighted to pretend shes mad in love with himthat I wouldnt so much mind Id just go to her and ask her do you love himand look her square in the eyes she couldnt fool me but he might imagine hewas and make a declaration to her with his plabbery kind of a manner likehe did to me though I had the devils own job to get it out of him though Iliked him for that it showed he could hold in and wasnt to be got for theasking he was on the pop of asking me too the night in the kitchen I wasrolling the potato cake theres something I want to say to you only for I puthim off letting on I was in a temper with my hands and arms full of pastyflour in any case I let out too much the night before talking of dreams so Ididnt want to let him know more than was good for him she used to bealways embracing me Josie whenever he was there meaning him of courseglauming me over and when I said I washed up and down as far as possibleasking me and did you wash possible the women are always egging on tothat putting it on thick when hes there they know by his sly eye blinking abit putting on the indifferent when they come out with something the kindhe is what spoils him I dont wonder in the least because he was veryhandsome at that time trying to look like Lord Byron I said I liked thoughhe was too beautiful for a man and he was a little before we got engagedafterwards though she didnt like it so much the day I was in fits of laughingwith the giggles I couldnt stop about all my hairpins falling out one afteranother with the mass of hair I had youre always in great humour she saidyes because it grigged her because she knew what it meant because I used totell her a good bit of what went on between us not all but just enough tomake her mouth water but that wasnt my fault she didnt darken the doormuch after we were married I wonder what shes got like now after livingwith that dotty husband of hers she had her face beginning to look drawnand run down the last time I saw her she must have been just after a rowwith him because I saw on the moment she was edging to draw down aconversation about husbands and talk about him to run him down whatwas it she told me O yes that sometimes he used to go to bed with hismuddy boots on when the maggot takes him just imagine having to get intobed with a thing like that that might murder you any moment what a manwell its not the one way everyone goes mad Poldy anyhow whatever he doesalways wipes his feet on the mat when he comes in wet or shine and alwaysblacks his own boots too and he always takes off his hat when he comes upin the street like then and now hes going about in his slippers to look for pounds for a postcard U p up O sweetheart May wouldnt a thing like thatsimply bore you stiff to extinction actually too stupid even to take his bootsoff now what could you make of a man like that Id rather die  times overthan marry another of their sex of course hed never find another womanlike me to put up with him the way I do know me come sleep with me yesand he knows that too at the bottom of his heart take that Mrs Maybrickthat poisoned her husband for what I wonder in love with some other manyes it was found out on her wasnt she the downright villain to go and do athing like that of course some men can be dreadfully aggravating drive youmad and always the worst word in the world what do they ask us to marrythem for if were so bad as all that comes to yes because they cant get onwithout us white Arsenic she put in his tea off flypaper wasnt it I wonderwhy they call it that if I asked him hed say its from the Greek leave us aswise as we were before she must have been madly in love with the otherfellow to run the chance of being hanged O she didnt care if that was hernature what could she do besides theyre not brutes enough to go and hang awoman surely are theytheyre all so different Boylan talking about the shape of my foot henoticed at once even before he was introduced when I was in the D B Cwith Poldy laughing and trying to listen I was waggling my foot we bothordered  teas and plain bread and butter I saw him looking with his twoold maids of sisters when I stood up and asked the girl where it was whatdo I care with it dropping out of me and that black closed breeches he mademe buy takes you half an hour to let them down wetting all myself alwayswith some brandnew fad every other week such a long one I did I forgot mysuede gloves on the seat behind that I never got after some robber of awoman and he wanted me to put it in the Irish times lost in the ladieslavatory D B C Dame street finder return to Mrs Marion Bloom and I sawhis eyes on my feet going out through the turning door he was lookingwhen I looked back and I went there for tea  days after in the hope but hewasnt now how did that excite him because I was crossing them when wewere in the other room first he meant the shoes that are too tight to walk inmy hand is nice like that if I only had a ring with the stone for my month anice aquamarine Ill stick him for one and a gold bracelet I dont like my footso much still I made him spend once with my foot the night after Goodwinsbotchup of a concert so cold and windy it was well we had that rum in thehouse to mull and the fire wasnt black out when he asked to take off mystockings lying on the hearthrug in Lombard street west and another time itwas my muddy boots hed like me to walk in all the horses dung I could findbut of course hes not natural like the rest of the world that I what did hesay I could give  points in  to Katty Lanner and beat her what does thatmean I asked him I forget what he said because the stoppress edition justpassed and the man with the curly hair in the Lucan dairy thats so polite Ithink I saw his face before somewhere I noticed him when I was tasting thebutter so I took my time Bartell dArcy too that he used to make fun of whenhe commenced kissing me on the choir stairs after I sang Gounods AveMaria what are we waiting for O my heart kiss me straight on the brow andpart which is my brown part he was pretty hot for all his tinny voice too mylow notes he was always raving about if you can believe him I liked the wayhe used his mouth singing then he said wasnt it terrible to do that there in aplace like that I dont see anything so terrible about it Ill tell him aboutthat some day not now and surprise him ay and Ill take him there and show himthe very place too we did it so now there you are like it or lump it he thinksnothing can happen without him knowing he hadnt an idea about mymother till we were engaged otherwise hed never have got me so cheap as hedid he was lo times worse himself anyhow begging me to give him a tiny bitcut off my drawers that was the evening coming along Kenilworth squarehe kissed me in the eye of my glove and I had to take it off asking mequestions is it permitted to enquire the shape of my bedroom so I let himkeep it as if I forgot it to think of me when I saw him slip it into hispocket of course hes mad on the subject of drawers thats plain to be seenalways skeezing at those brazenfaced things on the bicycles with their skirtsblowing up to their navels even when Milly and I were out with him at theopen air fete that one in the cream muslin standing right against the sun sohe could see every atom she had on when he saw me from behind followingin the rain I saw him before he saw me however standing at the corner ofthe Harolds cross road with a new raincoat on him with the muffler in theZingari colours to show off his complexion and the brown hat lookingslyboots as usual what was he doing there where hed no business they cango and get whatever they like from anything at all with a skirt on it andwere not to ask any questions but they want to know where were you whereare you going I could feel him coming along skulking after me his eyes onmy neck he had been keeping away from the house he felt it was getting toowarm for him so I halfturned and stopped then he pestered me to say yes tillI took off my glove slowly watching him he said my openwork sleeves weretoo cold for the rain anything for an excuse to put his hand anear medrawers drawers the whole blessed time till I promised to give him the pairoff my doll to carry about in his waistcoat pocket O Maria Santisima he didlook a big fool dreeping in the rain splendid set of teeth he had made mehungry to look at them and beseeched of me to lift the orange petticoat Ihad on with the sunray pleats that there was nobody he said hed kneeldown in the wet if I didnt so persevering he would too and ruin his newraincoat you never know what freak theyd take alone with you theyre sosavage for it if anyone was passing so I lifted them a bit and touched histrousers outside the way I used to Gardner after with my ring hand to keephim from doing worse where it was too public I was dying to find out washe circumcised he was shaking like a jelly all over they want to do everythingtoo quick take all the pleasure out of it and father waiting all thetime for his dinner he told me to say I left my purse in the butchers and hadto go back for it what a Deceiver then he wrote me that letter with all thosewords in it how could he have the face to any woman after his companymanners making it so awkward after when we met asking me have Ioffended you with my eyelids down of course he saw I wasnt he had a fewbrains not like that other fool Henny Doyle he was always breaking ortearing something in the charades I hate an unlucky man and if I knewwhat it meant of course I had to say no for form sake dont understand youI said and wasnt it natural so it is of course it used to be written up witha picture of a womans on that wall in Gibraltar with that word I couldnt findanywhere only for children seeing it too young then writing every morninga letter sometimes twice a day I liked the way he made love then he knewthe way to take a woman when he sent me the  big poppies because minewas the th then I wrote the night he kissed my heart at Dolphins barn Icouldnt describe it simply it makes you feel like nothing on earth but henever knew how to embrace well like Gardner I hope hell come on Mondayas he said at the same time four I hate people who come at all hours answerthe door you think its the vegetables then its somebody and you allundressed or the door of the filthy sloppy kitchen blows open the day oldfrostyface Goodwin called about the concert in Lombard street and I justafter dinner all flushed and tossed with boiling old stew dont look at meprofessor I had to say Im a fright yes but he was a real old gent in his wayit was impossible to be more respectful nobody to say youre out you have topeep out through the blind like the messengerboy today I thought it was aputoff first him sending the port and the peaches first and I was justbeginning to yawn with nerves thinking he was trying to make a fool of mewhen I knew his tattarrattat at the door he must have been a bit late becauseit was l/ after  when I saw the  Dedalus girls coming from school I neverknow the time even that watch he gave me never seems to go properly Idwant to get it looked after when I threw the penny to that lame sailor forEngland home and beauty when I was whistling there is a charming girl Ilove and I hadnt even put on my clean shift or powdered myself or a thingthen this day week were to go to Belfast just as well he has to go to Ennishis fathers anniversary the th it wouldnt be pleasant if he did suppose ourrooms at the hotel were beside each other and any fooling went on in thenew bed I couldnt tell him to stop and not bother me with him in the nextroom or perhaps some protestant clergyman with a cough knocking on thewall then hed never believe the next day we didnt do something its all verywell a husband but you cant fool a lover after me telling him we never didanything of course he didnt believe me no its better hes going where he isbesides something always happens with him the time going to the Mallowconcert at Maryborough ordering boiling soup for the two of us then thebell rang out he walks down the platform with the soup splashing abouttaking spoonfuls of it hadnt he the nerve and the waiter after him making aholy show of us screeching and confusion for the engine to start but hewouldnt pay till he finished it the two gentlemen in the rd class carriagesaid he was quite right so he was too hes so pigheaded sometimes when hegets a thing into his head a good job he was able to open the carriage doorwith his knife or theyd have taken us on to Cork I suppose that was doneout of revenge on him O I love jaunting in a train or a car with lovely softcushions I wonder will he take a st class for me he might want to do it inthe train by tipping the guard well O I suppose therell be the usual idiots ofmen gaping at us with their eyes as stupid as ever they can possibly be thatwas an exceptional man that common workman that left us alone in thecarriage that day going to Howth Id like to find out something about him lor  tunnels perhaps then you have to look out of the window all the nicerthen coming back suppose I never came back what would they say elopedwith him that gets you on on the stage the last concert I sang at where itsover a year ago when was it St Teresas hall Clarendon St little chits ofmissies they have now singing Kathleen Kearney and her like on account offather being in the army and my singing the absentminded beggar andwearing a brooch for Lord Roberts when I had the map of it all and Poldynot Irish enough was it him managed it this time I wouldnt put it past himlike he got me on to sing in the Stabat Mater by going around saying he wasputting Lead Kindly Light to music I put him up to that till the jesuits foundout he was a freemason thumping the piano lead Thou me on copied fromsome old opera yes and he was going about with some of them Sinner Feinlately or whatever they call themselves talking his usual trash and nonsensehe says that little man he showed me without the neck is very intelligent thecoming man Griffiths is he well he doesnt look it thats all I can say still itmust have been him he knew there was a boycott I hate the mention of theirpolitics after the war that Pretoria and Ladysmith and Bloemfontein whereGardner lieut Stanley G th Bn nd East Lancs Rgt of enteric fever he wasa lovely fellow in khaki and just the right height over me Im sure he wasbrave too he said I was lovely the evening we kissed goodbye at the canallock my Irish beauty he was pale with excitement about going away or wedbe seen from the road he couldnt stand properly and I so hot as I never feltthey could have made their peace in the beginning or old oom Paul and therest of the other old Krugers go and fight it out between them instead ofdragging on for years killing any finelooking men there were with theirfever if he was even decently shot it wouldnt have been so bad I love to see aregiment pass in review the first time I saw the Spanish cavalry at La Roqueit was lovely after looking across the bay from Algeciras all the lights ofthe rock like fireflies or those sham battles on the  acres the Black Watchwith their kilts in time at the march past the th hussars the prince ofWales own or the lancers O the lancers theyre grand or the Dublins that wonTugela his father made his money over selling the horses for the cavalrywell he could buy me a nice present up in Belfast after what I gave himtheyve lovely linen up there or one of those nice kimono things I must buy amothball like I had before to keep in the drawer with them it would beexciting going round with him shopping buying those things in a new citybetter leave this ring behind want to keep turning and turning to get it overthe knuckle there or they might bell it round the town in their papers or tellthe police on me but theyd think were married O let them all go andsmother themselves for the fat lot I care he has plenty of money and hes nota marrying man so somebody better get it out of him if I could find outwhether he likes me I looked a bit washy of course when I looked close inthe handglass powdering a mirror never gives you the expression besidesscrooching down on me like that all the time with his big hipbones hesheavy too with his hairy chest for this heat always having to lie down forthem better for him put it into me from behind the way Mrs Mastianskytold me her husband made her like the dogs do it and stick out her tongueas far as ever she could and he so quiet and mild with his tingating cithercan you ever be up to men the way it takes them lovely stuff in that blue suithe had on and stylish tie and socks with the skyblue silk things on them hescertainly well off I know by the cut his clothes have and his heavy watch buthe was like a perfect devil for a few minutes after he came back with thestoppress tearing up the tickets and swearing blazes because he lost  quidhe said he lost over that outsider that won and half he put on for me onaccount of Lenehans tip cursing him to the lowest pits that sponger he wasmaking free with me after the Glencree dinner coming back that long joultover the featherbed mountain after the lord Mayor looking at me with hisdirty eyes Val Dillon that big heathen I first noticed him at dessert when Iwas cracking the nuts with my teeth I wished I could have picked everymorsel of that chicken out of my fingers it was so tasty and browned and astender as anything only for I didnt want to eat everything on my plate thoseforks and fishslicers were hallmarked silver too I wish I had some I couldeasily have slipped a couple into my muff when I was playing with themthen always hanging out of them for money in a restaurant for the bit youput down your throat we have to be thankful for our mangy cup of tea itselfas a great compliment to be noticed the way the world is divided in any caseif its going to go on I want at least two other good chemises for one thingand but I dont know what kind of drawers he likes none at all I think didnthe say yes and half the girls in Gibraltar never wore them either naked asGod made them that Andalusian singing her Manola she didnt make muchsecret of what she hadnt yes and the second pair of silkette stockings isladdered after one days wear I could have brought them back to Lewers thismorning and kicked up a row and made that one change them only not toupset myself and run the risk of walking into him and ruining the wholething and one of those kidfitting corsets Id want advertised cheap in theGentlewoman with elastic gores on the hips he saved the one I have butthats no good what did they say they give a delightful figure line /obviating that unsightly broad appearance across the lower back to reduceflesh my belly is a bit too big Ill have to knock off the stout at dinner oram I getting too fond of it the last they sent from ORourkes was as flat as apancake he makes his money easy Larry they call him the old mangy parcelhe sent at Xmas a cottage cake and a bottle of hogwash he tried to palm offas claret that he couldnt get anyone to drink God spare his spit for fear heddie of the drouth or I must do a few breathing exercises I wonder is thatantifat any good might overdo it the thin ones are not so much the fashionnow garters that much I have the violet pair I wore today thats all hebought me out of the cheque he got on the first O no there was the facelotion I finished the last of yesterday that made my skin like new I told himover and over again get that made up in the same place and dont forget itGod only knows whether he did after all I said to him  know by the bottleanyway if not I suppose  only have to wash in my piss like beeftea orchickensoup with some of that opoponax and violet I thought it wasbeginning to look coarse or old a bit the skin underneath is much finerwhere it peeled off there on my finger after the burn its a pity it isnt alllike that and the four paltry handkerchiefs about /- in all sure you cant geton in this world without style all going in food and rent when I get it Illlash it around I tell you in fine style I always want to throw a handful oftea into the pot measuring and mincing if I buy a pair of old brogues itselfdo you like those new shoes yes how much were they Ive no clothes at all thebrown costume and the skirt and jacket and the one at the cleaners  whatsthat for any woman cutting up this old hat and patching up the other the menwont look at you and women try to walk on you because they know youve noman then with all the things getting dearer every day for the  years more Ihave of life up to  no Im what am I at all  be  in September will Iwhat O well look at that Mrs Galbraith shes much older than me I saw herwhen I was out last week her beautys on the wane she was a lovely womanmagnificent head of hair on her down to her waist tossing it back like thatlike Kitty OShea in Grantham street st thing I did every morning to lookacross see her combing it as if she loved it and was full of it pity I onlygot to know her the day before we left and that Mrs Langtry the jersey lilythe prince of Wales was in love with I suppose hes like the first man goingthe roads only for the name of a king theyre all made the one way only a blackmans Id like to try a beauty up to what was she  there was some funnystory about the jealous old husband what was it at all and an oyster knife hewent no he made her wear a kind of a tin thing round her and the prince ofWales yes he had the oyster knife cant be true a thing like that like some ofthose books he brings me the works of Master Francois Somebodysupposed to be a priest about a child born out of her ear because herbumgut fell out a nice word for any priest to write and her a--e as if anyfool wouldnt know what that meant I hate that pretending of all things withthat old blackguards face on him anybody can see its not true and thatRuby and Fair Tyrants he brought me that twice I remember when I cameto page  o the part about where she hangs him up out of a hook with a cordflagellate sure theres nothing for a woman in that all invention made upabout he drinking the champagne out of her slipper after the ball was overlike the infant Jesus in the crib at Inchicore in the Blessed Virgins armssure no woman could have a child that big taken out of her and I thought firstit came out of her side because how could she go to the chamber when shewanted to and she a rich lady of course she felt honoured H R H he was inGibraltar the year I was born I bet he found lilies there too where heplanted the tree he planted more than that in his time he might have plantedme too if hed come a bit sooner then I wouldnt be here as I am he ought tochuck that Freeman with the paltry few shillings he knocks out of it and gointo an office or something where hed get regular pay or a bank where theycould put him up on a throne to count the money all the day of course heprefers plottering about the house so you cant stir with him any side whatsyour programme today I wish hed even smoke a pipe like father to get the .smell of a man or pretending to be mooching about for advertisementswhen he could have been in Mr Cuffes still only for what he did thensending me to try and patch it up I could have got him promoted there to bethe manager he gave me a great mirada once or twice first he was as stiff asthe mischief really and truly Mrs Bloom only I felt rotten simply with theold rubbishy dress that I lost the leads out of the tails with no cut in itbut theyre coming into fashion again I bought it simply to please him I knewit was no good by the finish pity I changed my mind of going to Todd andBums as I said and not Lees it was just like the shop itself rummage sale alot of trash I hate those rich shops get on your nerves nothing kills mealtogether only he thinks he knows a great lot about a womans dress andcooking mathering everything he can scour off the shelves into it if I wentby his advices every blessed hat I put on does that suit me yes take thatthats alright the one like a weddingcake standing up miles off my head he saidsuited me or the dishcover one coming down on my backside on pins andneedles about the shopgirl in that place in Grafton street I had themisfortune to bring him into and she as insolent as ever she could be withher smirk saying Im afraid were giving you too much trouble what shesthere for but I stared it out of her yes he was awfully stiff and no wonderbut he changed the second time he looked Poldy pigheaded as usual like thesoup but I could see him looking very hard at my chest when he stood up toopen the door for me it was nice of him to show me out in any case Imextremely sorry Mrs Bloom believe me without making it too marked thefirst time after him being insulted and me being supposed to be his wife Ijust half smiled I know my chest was out that way at the door when he saidIm extremely sorry and Im sure you wereyes I think he made them a bit firmer sucking them like that so long hemade me thirsty titties he calls them I had to laugh yes this one anyhow stiffthe nipple gets for the least thing Ill get him to keep that up and Ill takethose eggs beaten up with marsala fatten them out for him what are allthose veins and things curious the way its made  the same in case of twinstheyre supposed to represent beauty placed up there like those statues in themuseum one of them pretending to hide it with her hand are they sobeautiful of course compared with what a man looks like with his two bagsfull and his other thing hanging down out of him or sticking up at you likea hatrack no wonder they hide it with a cabbageleaf that disgustingCameron highlander behind the meat market or that other wretch with thered head behind the tree where the statue of the fish used to be when I waspassing pretending he was pissing standing out for me to see it with hisbabyclothes up to one side the Queens own they were a nice lot its well theSurreys relieved them theyre always trying to show it to you every timenearly I passed outside the mens greenhouse near the Harcourt streetstation just to try some fellow or other trying to catch my eye as if it was Iof the  wonders of the world O and the stink of those rotten places thenight coming home with Poldy after the Comerfords party oranges andlemonade to make you feel nice and watery I went into r of them it was sobiting cold I couldnt keep it when was that  the canal was frozen yes itwas a few months after a pity a couple of the Camerons werent there to seeme squatting in the mens place meadero I tried to draw a picture of it beforeI tore it up like a sausage or something I wonder theyre not afraid goingabout of getting a kick or a bang of something there the woman is beauty ofcourse thats admitted when he said I could pose for a picture naked to somerich fellow in Holles street when he lost the job in Helys and I was sellingthe clothes and strumming in the coffee palace would I be like that bath ofthe nymph with my hair down yes only shes younger or Im a little like thatdirty bitch in that Spanish photo he has nymphs used they go about likethat I asked him about her and that word met something with hoses in itand he came out with some jawbreakers about the incarnation he never canexplain a thing simply the way a body can understand then he goes andburns the bottom out of the pan all for his Kidney this one not so muchtheres the mark of his teeth still where he tried to bite the nipple I had toscream out arent they fearful trying to hurt you I had a great breast of milkwith Milly enough for two what was the reason of that he said I could havegot a pound a week as a wet nurse all swelled out the morning that delicatelooking student that stopped in no  with the Citrons Penrose nearlycaught me washing through the window only for I snapped up the towel tomy face that was his studenting hurt me they used to weaning her till he gotdoctor Brady to give me the belladonna prescription I had to get him tosuck them they were so hard he said it was sweeter and thicker than cowsthen he wanted to milk me into the tea well hes beyond everything I declaresomebody ought to put him in the budget if I only could remember the Ihalf of the things and write a book out of it the works of Master Poldy yesand its so much smoother the skin much an hour he was at them Im sure bythe clock like some kind of a big infant I had at me they want everything intheir mouth all the pleasure those men get out of a woman I can feel hismouth O Lord I must stretch myself I wished he was here or somebody tolet myself go with and come again like that I feel all fire inside me or if Icould dream it when he made me spend the nd time tickling me behind withhis finger I was coming for about  minutes with my legs round him I hadto hug him after O Lord I wanted to shout out all sorts of things fuck orshit or anything at all only not to look ugly or those lines from the strainwho knows the way hed take it you want to feel your way with a mantheyre not all like him thank God some of them want you to be so niceabout it I noticed the contrast he does it and doesnt talk I gave my eyes thatlook with my hair a bit loose from the tumbling and my tongue between mylips up to him the savage brute Thursday Friday one Saturday two Sundaythree O Lord I cant wait till Mondayfrseeeeeeeefronnnng train somewhere whistling the strength thoseengines have in them like big giants and the water rolling all over and out ofthem all sides like the end of Loves old sweeeetsonnnng the poor men thathave to be out all the night from their wives and families in those roastingengines stifling it was today Im glad I burned the half of those old Freemansand Photo Bits leaving things like that lying about hes getting very carelessand threw the rest of them up in the W C  get him to cut them tomorrowfor me instead of having them there for the next year to get a few pence forthem have him asking wheres last Januarys paper and all those oldovercoats I bundled out of the hall making the place hotter than it is thatrain was lovely and refreshing just after my beauty sleep I thought it wasgoing to get like Gibraltar my goodness the heat there before the levantercame on black as night and the glare of the rock standing up in it like a biggiant compared with their  Rock mountain they think is so great with thered sentries here and there the poplars and they all whitehot and the smellof the rainwater in those tanks watching the sun all the time weltering downon you faded all that lovely frock fathers friend Mrs Stanhope sent me fromthe B Marche paris what a shame my dearest Doggerina she wrote on it shewas very nice whats this her other name was just a p c to tell you I sent thelittle present have just had a jolly warm bath and feel a very clean dog nowenjoyed it wogger she called him wogger wd give anything to be back inGib and hear you sing Waiting and in old Madrid Concone is the name ofthose exercises he bought me one of those new some word I couldnt makeout shawls amusing things but tear for the least thing still there lovely Ithink dont you will always think of the lovely teas we had togetherscrumptious currant scones and raspberry wafers I adore well now dearestDoggerina be sure and write soon kind she left out regards to your fatheralso captain Grove with love yrs affly Hester x x x x x she didnt look a bitmarried just like a girl he was years older than her wogger he was awfullyfond of me when he held down the wire with his foot for me to step over atthe bullfight at La Linea when that matador Gomez was given the bulls earthese clothes we have to wear whoever invented them expecting you to walkup Killiney hill then for example at that picnic all staysed up you cant do ablessed thing in them in a crowd run or jump out of the way thats why Iwas afraid when that other ferocious old Bull began to charge thebanderilleros with the sashes and the  things in their hats and the brutes ofmen shouting bravo toro sure the women were as bad in their nice whitemantillas ripping all the whole insides out of those poor horses I neverheard of such a thing in all my life yes he used to break his heart at metaking off the dog barking in bell lane poor brute and it sick what became ofthem ever I suppose theyre dead long ago the  of them its like all through amist makes you feel so old I made the scones of course I had everything allto myself then a girl Hester we used to compare our hair mine was thickerthan hers she showed me how to settle it at the back when I put it up andwhats this else how to make a knot on a thread with the one hand we werelike cousins what age was I then the night of the storm I slept in her bed shehad her arms round me then we were fighting in the morning with thepillow what fun he was watching me whenever he got an opportunity at theband on the Alameda esplanade when I was with father and captain GroveI looked up at the church first and then at the windows then down and oureyes met I felt something go through me like all needles my eyes weredancing I remember after when I looked at myself in the glass hardlyrecognised myself the change he was attractive to a girl in spite of his beinga little bald intelligent looking disappointed and gay at the same time he waslike Thomas in the shadow of Ashlydyat I had a splendid skin from the sunand the excitement like a rose I didnt get a wink of sleep it wouldnt havebeen nice on account of her but I could have stopped it in time she gave methe Moonstone to read that was the first I read of Wilkie Collins East LynneI read and the shadow of Ashlydyat Mrs Henry Wood Henry Dunbar bythat other woman I lent him afterwards with Mulveys photo in it so as hesee I wasnt without and Lord Lytton Eugene Aram Molly bawn she gaveme by Mrs Hungerford on account of the name I dont like books with aMolly in them like that one he brought me about the one from Flanders awhore always shoplifting anything she could cloth and stuff and yards of itO this blanket is too heavy on me thats better I havent even one decentnightdress this thing gets all rolled under me besides him and his foolingthats better I used to be weltering then in the heat my shift drenched withthe sweat stuck in the cheeks of my bottom on the chair when I stood upthey were so fattish and firm when I got up on the sofa cushions to see withmy clothes up and the bugs tons of them at night and the mosquito nets Icouldnt read a line Lord how long ago it seems centuries of course theynever came back and she didnt put her address right on it either she mayhave noticed her wogger people were always going away and we never Iremember that day with the waves and the boats with their high headsrocking and the smell of ship those Officers uniforms on shore leave mademe seasick he didnt say anything he was very serious I had the highbuttoned boots on and my skirt was blowing she kissed me six or seventimes didnt I cry yes I believe I did or near it my lips were taittering whenI said goodbye she had a Gorgeous wrap of some special kind of blue colouron her for the voyage made very peculiarly to one side like and it wasextremely pretty it got as dull as the devil after they went I was almostplanning to run away mad out of it somewhere were never easy where weare father or aunt or marriage waiting always waiting to guiiiide him toooome waiting nor speeeed his flying feet their damn guns bursting andbooming all over the shop especially the Queens birthday and throwingeverything down in all directions if you didnt open the windows whengeneral Ulysses Grant whoever he was or did supposed to be some greatfellow landed off the ship and old Sprague the consul that was there frombefore the flood dressed up poor man and he in mourning for the son thenthe same old bugles for reveille in the morning and drums rolling and theunfortunate poor devils of soldiers walking about with messtins smelling theplace more than the old longbearded jews in their jellibees and levitesassembly and sound clear and gunfire for the men to cross the lines and thewarden marching with his keys to lock the gates and the bagpipes and onlycaptain Groves and father talking about Rorkes drift and Plevna and sirGarnet Wolseley and Gordon at Khartoum lighting their pipes for themeverytime they went out drunken old devil with his grog on the windowsillcatch him leaving any of it picking his nose trying to think of some otherdirty story to tell up in a corner but he never forgot himself when I wasthere sending me out of the room on some blind excuse paying hiscompliments the Bushmills whisky talking of course but hed do the same tothe next woman that came along I suppose he died of galloping drink agesago the days like years not a letter from a living soul except the odd few Iposted to myself with bits of paper in them so bored sometimes I could fightwith my nails listening to that old Arab with the one eye and his heass of aninstrument singing his heah heah aheah all my compriments on yourhotchapotch of your heass as bad as now with the hands hanging off melooking out of the window if there was a nice fellow even in the oppositehouse that medical in Holles street the nurse was after when I put on mygloves and hat at the window to show I was going out not a notion what Imeant arent they thick never understand what you say even youd want toprint it up on a big poster for them not even if you shake hands twice withthe left he didnt recognise me either when I half frowned at him outsideWestland row chapel where does their great intelligence come in Id like toknow grey matter they have it all in their tail if you ask me those countrygougers up in the City Arms intelligence they had a damn sight less than thebulls and cows they were selling the meat and the coalmans bell that noisybugger trying to swindle me with the wrong bill he took out of his hat whata pair of paws and pots and pans and kettles to mend any broken bottles fora poor man today and no visitors or post ever except his cheques or someadvertisement like that wonderworker they sent him addressed dear Madamonly his letter and the card from Milly this morning see she wrote a letter tohim who did I get the last letter from O Mrs Dwenn now what possessedher to write from Canada after so many years to know the recipe I had forpisto madrileno Floey Dillon since she wrote to say she was married to avery rich architect if Im to believe all I hear with a villa and eight roomsher father was an awfully nice man he was near seventy always goodhumouredwell now Miss Tweedy or Miss Gillespie theres the piannyer that was a solidsilver coffee service he had too on the mahogany sideboard then dying sofar away I hate people that have always their poor story to tell everybodyhas their own troubles that poor Nancy Blake died a month ago of acuteneumonia well I didnt know her so well as all that she was Floeys friendmore than mine poor Nancy its a bother having to answer he always tellsme the wrong things and no stops to say like making a speech your sadbereavement symphathy I always make that mistake and newphew with double yous in I hope hell write me a longer letter the next time if its athing he really likes me O thanks be to the great God I got somebody to giveme what I badly wanted to put some heart up into me youve no chances at all inthis place like you used long ago I wish somebody would write me aloveletter his wasnt much and I told him he could write what he liked yoursever Hugh Boylan in old Madrid stuff silly women believe love is sighing Iam dying still if he wrote it I suppose thered be some truth in it true or noit fills up your whole day and life always something to think about everymoment and see it all round you like a new world I could write the answerin bed to let him imagine me short just a few words not those long crossedletters Atty Dillon used to write to the fellow that was something in the fourcourts that jilted her after out of the ladies letterwriter when I told her tosay a few simple words he could twist how he liked not acting with precipatprecip itancy with equal candour the greatest earthly happiness answer to agentlemans proposal affirmatively my goodness theres nothing else its allvery fine for them but as for being a woman as soon as youre old they mightas well throw you out in the bottom of the ashpit.Mulveys was the first when I was in bed that morning and Mrs Rubiobrought it in with the coffee she stood there standing when I asked her tohand me and I pointing at them I couldnt think of the word a hairpin toopen it with ah horquilla disobliging old thing and it staring her in the facewith her switch of false hair on her and vain about her appearance ugly asshe was near  or a loo her face a mass of wrinkles with all her religiondomineering because she never could get over the Atlantic fleet coming inhalf the ships of the world and the Union Jack flying with all hercarabineros because  drunken English sailors took all the rock from themand because I didnt run into mass often enough in Santa Maria to pleaseher with her shawl up on her except when there was a marriage on with allher miracles of the saints and her black blessed virgin with the silver dressand the sun dancing  times on Easter Sunday morning and when the priestwas going by with the bell bringing the vatican to the dying blessing herselffor his Majestad an admirer he signed it I near jumped out of my skin Iwanted to pick him up when I saw him following me along the Calle Real inthe shop window then he tipped me just in passing but I never thought hedwrite making an appointment I had it inside my petticoat bodice all dayreading it up in every hole and corner while father was up at the drillinstructing to find out by the handwriting or the language of stamps singingI remember shall I wear a white rose and I wanted to put on the old stupidclock to near the time he was the first man kissed me under the Moorishwall my sweetheart when a boy it never entered my head what kissingmeant till he put his tongue in my mouth his mouth was sweetlike young Iput my knee up to him a few times to learn the way what did I tell him I wasengaged for for fun to the son of a Spanish nobleman named Don Miguelde la Flora and he believed me that I was to be married to him in  yearstime theres many a true word spoken in jest there is a flower that bloometha few things I told him true about myself just for him to be imagining theSpanish girls he didnt like I suppose one of them wouldnt have him I gothim excited he crushed all the flowers on my bosom he brought me hecouldnt count the pesetas and the perragordas till I taught him Cappoquinhe came from he said on the black water but it was too short then the daybefore he left May yes it was May when the infant king of Spain was bornIm always like that in the spring Id like a new fellow every year up on thetiptop under the rockgun near OHaras tower I told him it was struck bylightning and all about the old Barbary apes they sent to Clapham without atail careering all over the show on each others back Mrs Rubio said she wasa regular old rock scorpion robbing the chickens out of Inces farm andthrow stones at you if you went anear he was looking at me I had that whiteblouse on open in the front to encourage him as much as I could withouttoo openly they were just beginning to be plump I said I was tired we layover the firtree cove a wild place I suppose it must be the highest rock inexistence the galleries and casemates and those frightful rocks and SaintMichaels cave with the icicles or whatever they call them hanging down andladders all the mud plotching my boots Im sure thats the way down themonkeys go under the sea to Africa when they die the ships out far likechips that was the Malta boat passing yes the sea and the sky you could dowhat you liked lie there for ever he caressed them outside they love doingthat its the roundness there I was leaning over him with my white ricestrawhat to take the newness out of it the left side of my face the best my blouseopen for his last day transparent kind of shirt he had I could see his chestpink he wanted to touch mine with his for a moment but I wouldnt lee himhe was awfully put out first for fear you never know consumption or leaveme with a child embarazada that old servant Ines told me that one dropeven if it got into you at all after I tried with the Banana but I was afraidit might break and get lost up in me somewhere because they once tooksomething down out of a woman that was up there for years covered withlimesalts theyre all mad to get in there where they come out of youd thinkthey could never go far enough up and then theyre done with you in a waytill the next time yes because theres a wonderful feeling there so tender allthe time how did we finish it off yes O yes I pulled him off into myhandkerchief pretending not to be excited but I opened my legs I wouldntlet him touch me inside my petticoat because I had a skirt opening up theside I tormented the life out of him first tickling him I loved rousing thatdog in the hotel rrrsssstt awokwokawok his eyes shut and a bird flyingbelow us he was shy all the same I liked him like that moaning I made himblush a little when I got over him that way when I unbuttoned him and tookhis out and drew back the skin it had a kind of eye in it theyre all Buttonsmen down the middle on the wrong side of them Molly darling he called mewhat was his name Jack Joe Harry Mulvey was it yes I think a lieutenant hewas rather fair he had a laughing kind of a voice so I went round to thewhatyoucallit everything was whatyoucallit moustache had he he said hedcome back Lord its just like yesterday to me and if I was married hed do itto me and I promised him yes faithfully Id let him block me now flyingperhaps hes dead or killed or a captain or admiral its nearly  years if Isaid firtree cove he would if he came up behind me and put his hands overmy eyes to guess who I might recognise him hes young still about perhaps hes married some girl on the black water and is quite changed theyall do they havent half the character a woman has she little knows what Idid with her beloved husband before he ever dreamt of her in broaddaylight too in the sight of the whole world you might say they could haveput an article about it in the Chronicle I was a bit wild after when I blewout the old bag the biscuits were in from Benady Bros and exploded it Lordwhat a bang all the woodcocks and pigeons screaming coming back thesame way that we went over middle hill round by the old guardhouse andthe jews burialplace pretending to read out the Hebrew on them I wanted tofire his pistol he said he hadnt one he didnt know what to make of me withhis peak cap on that he always wore crooked as often as I settled it straightH M S Calypso swinging my hat that old Bishop that spoke off the altar hislong preach about womans higher functions about girls now riding thebicycle and wearing peak caps and the new woman bloomers God send himsense and me more money I suppose theyre called after him I never thoughtthat would be my name Bloom when I used to write it in print to see how itlooked on a visiting card or practising for the butcher and oblige M Bloomyoure looking blooming Josie used to say after I married him well its betterthan Breen or Briggs does brig or those awful names with bottom in themMrs Ramsbottom or some other kind of a bottom Mulvey I wouldnt go madabout either or suppose I divorced him Mrs Boylan my mother whoever shewas might have given me a nicer name the Lord knows after the lovely oneshe had Lunita Laredo the fun we had running along Williss road toEuropa point twisting in and out all round the other side of Jersey theywere shaking and dancing about in my blouse like Millys little ones nowwhen she runs up the stairs I loved looking down at them I was jumping upat the pepper trees and the white poplars pulling the leaves off and throwingthem at him he went to India he was to write the voyages those men have tomake to the ends of the world and back its the least they might get a squeezeor two at a woman while they can going out to be drowned or blown upsomewhere I went up Windmill hill to the flats that Sunday morning withcaptain Rubios that was dead spyglass like the sentry had he said hed haveone or two from on board I wore that frock from the B Marche paris andthe coral necklace the straits shining I could see over to Morocco almost thebay of Tangier white and the Atlas mountain with snow on it and the straitslike a river so clear Harry Molly darling I was thinking of him on the sea allthe time after at mass when my petticoat began to slip down at the elevationweeks and weeks I kept the handkerchief under my pillow for the smell ofhim there was no decent perfume to be got in that Gibraltar only that cheappeau dEspagne that faded and left a stink on you more than anything else Iwanted to give him a memento he gave me that clumsy Claddagh ring forluck that I gave Gardner going to south Africa where those Boers killedhim with their war and fever but they were well beaten all the same asif it brought its bad luck with it like an opal or pearl still it must havebeen pure  carrot gold because it was very heavy but what could you get ina place like that the sandfrog shower from Africa and that derelict shipthat came up to the harbour Marie the Marie whatyoucallit no he hadnt amoustache that was Gardner yes I can see his face cleanshavenFrseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeefrong that train again weeping tone once in the deardeaead days beyondre call close my eyes breath my lips forward kiss sadlook eyes open piano ere oer the world the mists began I hate that istsbegcomes loves sweet sooooooooooong Ill let that out full when I get in front ofthe footlights again Kathleen Kearney and her lot of squealers Miss ThisMiss That Miss Theother lot of sparrowfarts skitting around talking aboutpolitics they know as much about as my backside anything in the world tomake themselves someway interesting Irish homemade beauties soldiersdaughter am I ay and whose are you bootmakers and publicans I beg yourpardon coach I thought you were a wheelbarrow theyd die down dead offtheir feet if ever they got a chance of walking down the Alameda on anofficers arm like me on the bandnight my eyes flash my bust that theyhavent passion God help their poor head I knew more about men and lifewhen I was I S than theyll all know at  they dont know how to sing a songlike that Gardner said no man could look at my mouth and teeth smilinglike that and not think of it I was afraid he mightnt like my accent first heso English all father left me in spite of his stamps Ive my mothers eyes andfigure anyhow he always said theyre so snotty about themselves some ofthose cads he wasnt a bit like that he was dead gone on my lips let them geta husband first thats fit to be looked at and a daughter like mine or see ifthey can excite a swell with money that can pick and choose whoever hewants like Boylan to do it  or  times locked in each others arms or thevoice either I could have been a prima donna only I married him comeslooooves old deep down chin back not too much make it double My LadysBower is too long for an encore about the moated grange at twilight andvaunted rooms yes Ill sing Winds that blow from the south that he gaveafter the choirstairs performance Ill change that lace on my black dress toshow off my bubs and Ill yes by God Ill get that big fan mended make themburst with envy my hole is itching me always when I think of him I feel Iwant to I feel some wind in me better go easy not wake him have him at itagain slobbering after washing every bit of myself back belly and sides if wehad even a bath itself or my own room anyway I wish hed sleep in some bedby himself with his cold feet on me give us room even to let a fart God or dothe least thing better yes hold them like that a bit on my side piano quietlysweeeee theres that train far away pianissimo eeeee one more tsongthat was a relief wherever you be let your wind go free who knows ifthat pork chop I took with my cup of tea after was quite good with the heatI couldnt smell anything off it Im sure that queerlooking man in theporkbutchers is a great rogue I hope that lamp is not smoking fill my noseup with smuts better than having him leaving the gas on all night I couldntrest easy in my bed in Gibraltar even getting up to see why am I so damnednervous about that though I like it in the winter its more company O Lord itwas rotten cold too that winter when I was only about ten was I yes I hadthe big doll with all the funny clothes dressing her up and undressing thaticy wind skeeting across from those mountains the something Nevadasierra nevada standing at the fire with the little bit of a short shift I hadup to heat myself I loved dancing about in it then make a race back into bedIm sure that fellow opposite used to be there the whole time watching with thelights out in the summer and I in my skin hopping around I used to lovemyself then stripped at the washstand dabbing and creaming only when itcame to the chamber performance I put out the light too so then there were of us goodbye to my sleep for this night anyhow I hope hes not going toget in with those medicals leading him astray to imagine hes young againcoming in at  in the morning it must be if not more still he had the mannersnot to wake me what do they find to gabber about all night squanderingmoney and getting drunker and drunker couldnt they drink water then hestarts giving us his orders for eggs and tea and Findon haddy and hotbuttered toast I suppose well have him sitting up like the king of the countrypumping the wrong end of the spoon up and down in his egg wherever helearned that from and I love to hear him falling up the stairs of a morningwith the cups rattling on the tray and then play with the cat she rubs upagainst you for her own sake I wonder has she fleas shes as bad as a womanalways licking and lecking but I hate their claws I wonder do they seeanything that we cant staring like that when she sits at the top of the stairsso long and listening as I wait always what a robber too that lovely freshplace I bought I think Ill get a bit of fish tomorrow or today is it Fridayyes I will with some blancmange with black currant jam like long ago not those lb pots of mixed plum and apple from the London and NewcastleWilliams and Woods goes twice as far only for the bones I hate those eelscod yes Ill get a nice piece of cod Im always getting enough for  forgettinganyway Im sick of that everlasting butchers meat from Buckleys loin chopsand leg beef and rib steak and scrag of mutton and calfs pluck the veryname is enough or a picnic suppose we all gave /- each and or let him payit and invite some other woman for him who Mrs Fleming and drove out tothe furry glen or the strawberry beds wed have him examining all the horsestoenails first like he does with the letters no not with Boylan there yes withsome cold veal and ham mixed sandwiches there are little houses down atthe bottom of the banks there on purpose but its as hot as blazes he says nota bank holiday anyhow I hate those ruck of Mary Ann coalboxes out forthe day Whit Monday is a cursed day too no wonder that bee bit him betterthe seaside but Id never again in this life get into a boat with him after himat Bray telling the boatman he knew how to row if anyone asked could heride the steeplechase for the gold cup hed say yes then it came on to getrough the old thing crookeding about and the weight all down my sidetelling me pull the right reins now pull the left and the tide all swamping infloods in through the bottom and his oar slipping out of the stirrup its amercy we werent all drowned he can swim of course me no theres nodanger whatsoever keep yourself calm in his flannel trousers Id like to havetattered them down off him before all the people and give him what that onecalls flagellate till he was black and blue do him all the good in the worldonly for that longnosed chap I dont know who he is with that other beautyBurke out of the City Arms hotel was there spying around as usual on theslip always where he wasnt wanted if there was a row on youd vomit abetter face there was no love lost between us thats  consolation I wonderwhat kind is that book he brought me Sweets of Sin by a gentleman offashion some other Mr de Kock I suppose the people gave him thatnickname going about with his tube from one woman to another I couldnteven change my new white shoes all ruined with the saltwater and the hat Ihad with that feather all blowy and tossed on me how annoying andprovoking because the smell of the sea excited me of course the sardines andthe bream in Catalan bay round the back of the rock they were fine allsilver in the fishermens baskets old Luigi near a hundred they said camefrom Genoa and the tall old chap with the earrings I dont like a man youhave to climb up to to get at I suppose theyre all dead and rotten long agobesides I dont like being alone in this big barracks of a place at night Isuppose Ill have to put up with it I never brought a bit of salt in even whenwe moved in the confusion musical academy he was going to make on thefirst floor drawingroom with a brassplate or Blooms private hotel hesuggested go and ruin himself altogether the way his father did down inEnnis like all the things he told father he was going to do and me but I sawthrough him telling me all the lovely places we could go for the honeymoonVenice by moonlight with the gondolas and the lake of Como he had apicture cut out of some paper of and mandolines and lanterns O how nice Isaid whatever I liked he was going to do immediately if not sooner will yoube my man will you carry my can he ought to get a leather medal with aputty rim for all the plans he invents then leaving us here all day youd neverknow what old beggar at the door for a crust with his long story might be atramp and put his foot in the way to prevent me shutting it like that pictureof that hardened criminal he was called in Lloyds Weekly news  years injail then he comes out and murders an old woman for her money imaginehis poor wife or mother or whoever she is such a face youd run miles awayfrom I couldnt rest easy till I bolted all the doors and windows to make surebut its worse again being locked up like in a prison or a madhouse theyought to be all shot or the cat of nine tails a big brute like that that wouldattack a poor old woman to murder her in her bed Id cut them off him so Iwould not that hed be much use still better than nothing the night I wassure I heard burglars in the kitchen and he went down in his shirt with acandle and a poker as if he was looking for a mouse as white as a sheetfrightened out of his wits making as much noise as he possibly could for theburglars benefit there isnt much to steal indeed the Lord knows still its thefeeling especially now with Milly away such an idea for him to send the girldown there to learn to take photographs on account of his grandfatherinstead of sending her to Skerrys academy where shed have to learn not likeme getting all IS at school only hed do a thing like that all the same onaccount of me and Boylan thats why he did it Im certain the way he plotsand plans everything out I couldnt turn round with her in the place latelyunless I bolted the door first gave me the fidgets coming in withoutknocking first when I put the chair against the door just as I was washingmyself there below with the glove get on your nerves then doing the logladyall day put her in a glasscase with two at a time to look at her if he knewshe broke off the hand off that little gimcrack statue with her roughness andcarelessness before she left that I got that little Italian boy to mend sothat you cant see the join for  shillings wouldnt even teem the potatoes foryou of course shes right not to ruin her hands I noticed he was always talkingto her lately at the table explaining things in the paper and she pretendingto understand sly of course that comes from his side of the house he cant sayI pretend things can he Im too honest as a matter of fact and helping her intoher coat but if there was anything wrong with her its me shed tell not him Isuppose he thinks Im finished out and laid on the shelf well Im not no noranything like it well see well see now shes well on for flirting too with TomDevans two sons imitating me whistling with those romps of Murray girlscalling for her can Milly come out please shes in great demand to pick whatthey can out of her round in Nelson street riding Harry Devans bicycle atnight its as well he sent her where she is she was just getting out of boundswanting to go on the skatingrink and smoking their cigarettes through theirnose I smelt it off her dress when I was biting off the thread of the button Isewed on to the bottom of her jacket she couldnt hide much from me I tellyou only I oughtnt to have stitched it and it on her it brings a parting andthe last plumpudding too split in  halves see it comes out no matter whatthey say her tongue is a bit too long for my taste your blouse is open toolow she says to me the pan calling the kettle blackbottom and I had to tellher not to cock her legs up like that on show on the windowsill before allthe people passing they all look at her like me when I was her age of courseany old rag looks well on you then a great touchmenot too in her own wayat the Only Way in the Theatre royal take your foot away out of that I hatepeople touching me afraid of her life Id crush her skirt with the pleats a lotof that touching must go on in theatres in the crush in the dark theyrealways trying to wiggle up to you that fellow in the pit at the Gaiety forBeerbohm Tree in Trilby the last time Ill ever go there to be squashed likethat for any Trilby or her barebum every two minutes tipping me there andlooking away hes a bit daft I think I saw him after trying to get near twostylishdressed ladies outside Switzers window at the same little game Irecognised him on the moment the face and everything but he didntremember me yes and she didnt even want me to kiss her at the Broadstonegoing away well I hope shell get someone to dance attendance on her theway I did when she was down with the mumps and her glands swollenwheres this and wheres that of course she cant feel anything deep yet Inever came properly till I was what  or so it went into the wrong placealways only the usual girls nonsense and giggling that Conny Connollywriting to her in white ink on black paper sealed with sealingwax thoughshe clapped when the curtain came down because he looked so handsomethen we had Martin Harvey for breakfast dinner and supper I thought tomyself afterwards it must be real love if a man gives up his life for her thatway for nothing I suppose there are a few men like that left its hard tobelieve in it though unless it really happened to me the majority of themwith not a particle of love in their natures to find two people like thatnowadays full up of each other that would feel the same way as you dotheyre usually a bit foolish in the head his father must have been a bit queerto go and poison himself after her still poor old man I suppose he felt lostshes always making love to my things too the few old rags I have wanting toput her hair up at I S my powder too only ruin her skin on her shes timeenough for that all her life after of course shes restless knowing shes prettywith her lips so red a pity they wont stay that way I was too but theres nouse going to the fair with the thing answering me like a fishwoman when Iasked to go for a half a stone of potatoes the day we met Mrs Joe Gallaherat the trottingmatches and she pretended not to see us in her trap withFriery the solicitor we werent grand enough till I gave her  damn finecracks across the ear for herself take that now for answering me like thatand that for your impudence she had me that exasperated of coursecontradicting I was badtempered too because how was it there was a weedin the tea or I didnt sleep the night before cheese I ate was it and I toldher over and over again not to leave knives crossed like that because she hasnobody to command her as she said herself well if he doesnt correct herfaith I will that was the last time she turned on the teartap I was just likethat myself they darent order me about the place its his fault of coursehaving the two of us slaving here instead of getting in a woman long ago amI ever going to have a proper servant again of course then shed see himcoming Id have to let her know or shed revenge it arent they a nuisance thatold Mrs Fleming you have to be walking round after her putting the thingsinto her hands sneezing and farting into the pots well of course shes old shecant help it a good job I found that rotten old smelly dishcloth that got lostbehind the dresser I knew there was something and opened the areawindow to let out the smell bringing in his friends to entertain them like thenight he walked home with a dog if you please that might have been madespecially Simon Dedalus son his father such a criticiser with his glasses upwith his tall hat on him at the cricket match and a great big hole in his sockone thing laughing at the other and his son that got all those prizes forwhatever he won them in the intermediate imagine climbing over therailings if anybody saw him that knew us I wonder he didnt tear a big holein his grand funeral trousers as if the one nature gave wasnt enough foranybody hawking him down into the dirty old kitchen now is he right in hishead I ask pity it wasnt washing day my old pair of drawers might havebeen hanging up too on the line on exhibition for all hed ever care with theironmould mark the stupid old bundle burned on them he might think wassomething else and she never even rendered down the fat I told her and nowshes going such as she was on account of her paralysed husband gettingworse theres always something wrong with them disease or they have to gounder an operation or if its not that its drink and he beats her Ill have tohunt around again for someone every day I get up theres some new thingon sweet God sweet God well when Im stretched out dead in my grave Isuppose  have some peace I want to get up a minute if Im let wait O Jesuswait yes that thing has come on me yes now wouldnt that afflict you ofcourse all the poking and rooting and ploughing he had up in me now whatam I to do Friday Saturday Sunday wouldnt that pester the soul out of abody unless he likes it some men do God knows theres always somethingwrong with us  days every  or  weeks usual monthly auction isnt itsimply sickening that night it came on me like that the one and only time wewere in a box that Michael Gunn gave him to see Mrs Kendal and herhusband at the Gaiety something he did about insurance for him inDrimmies I was fit to be tied though I wouldnt give in with that gentlemanof fashion staring down at me with his glasses and him the other side of metalking about Spinoza and his soul thats dead I suppose millions of yearsago I smiled the best I could all in a swamp leaning forward as if I wasinterested having to sit it out then to the last tag I wont forget that wife ofScarli in a hurry supposed to be a fast play about adultery that idiot in thegallery hissing the woman adulteress he shouted I suppose he went and hada woman in the next lane running round all the back ways after to make upfor it I wish he had what I had then hed boo I bet the cat itself is better offthan us have we too much blood up in us or what O patience above itspouring out of me like the sea anyhow he didnt make me pregnant as big ashe is I dont want to ruin the clean sheets I just put on I suppose the cleanlinen I wore brought it on too damn it damn it and they always want to seea stain on the bed to know youre a virgin for them all thats troubling themtheyre such fools too you could be a widow or divorced  times over adaub of red ink would do or blackberry juice no thats too purply O Jamesylet me up out of this pooh sweets of sin whoever suggested that business forwomen what between clothes and cooking and children this damned oldbed too jingling like the dickens I suppose they could hear us away over theother side of the park till I suggested to put the quilt on the floor with thepillow under my bottom I wonder is it nicer in the day I think it is easy Ithink Ill cut all this hair off me there scalding me I might look like a younggirl wouldnt he get the great suckin the next time he turned up my clotheson me Id give anything to see his face wheres the chamber gone easy Ive aholy horror of its breaking under me after that old commode I wonder wasI too heavy sitting on his knee I made him sit on the easychair purposelywhen I took off only my blouse and skirt first in the other room he was sobusy where he oughtnt to be he never felt me I hope my breath was sweetafter those kissing comfits easy God I remember one time I could scout itout straight whistling like a man almost easy O Lord how noisy I hopetheyre bubbles on it for a wad of money from some fellow  have toperfume it in the morning dont forget I bet he never saw a better pair ofthighs than that look how white they are the smoothest place is right therebetween this bit here how soft like a peach easy God I wouldnt mind being aman and get up on a lovely woman O Lord what a row youre making likethe jersey lily easy easy O how the waters come down at Lahorewho knows is there anything the matter with my insides or have Isomething growing in me getting that thing like that every week when was itlast I Whit Monday yes its only about  weeks I ought to go to the doctoronly it would be like before I married him when I had that white thingcoming from me and Floey made me go to that dry old stick Dr Collins forwomens diseases on Pembroke road your vagina he called it I suppose thatshow he got all the gilt mirrors and carpets getting round those rich ones offStephens green running up to him for every little fiddlefaddle her vaginaand her cochinchina theyve money of course so theyre all right I wouldntmarry him not if he was the last man in the world besides theres somethingqueer about their children always smelling around those filthy bitches allsides asking me if what I did had an offensive odour what did he want me todo but the one thing gold maybe what a question if I smathered it all overhis wrinkly old face for him with all my compriments I suppose hed knowthen and could you pass it easily pass what I thought he was talking aboutthe rock of Gibraltar the way he put it thats a very nice invention too by theway only I like letting myself down after in the hole as far as I can squeezeand pull the chain then to flush it nice cool pins and needles still theressomething in it I suppose I always used to know by Millys when she was achild whether she had worms or not still all the same paying him for thathow much is that doctor one guinea please and asking me had I frequentomissions where do those old fellows get all the words they have omissionswith his shortsighted eyes on me cocked sideways I wouldnt trust him toofar to give me chloroform or God knows what else still I liked him when hesat down to write the thing out frowning so severe his nose intelligent likethat you be damned you lying strap O anything no matter who except anidiot he was clever enough to spot that of course that was all thinking ofhim and his mad crazy letters my Precious one everything connected withyour glorious Body everything underlined that comes from it is a thing ofbeauty and of joy for ever something he got out of some nonsensical bookthat he had me always at myself  and  times a day sometimes and I said Ihadnt are you sure O yes I said I am quite sure in a way that shut him up Iknew what was coming next only natural weakness it was he excited me Idont know how the first night ever we met when I was living in Rehobothterrace we stood staring at one another for about lo minutes as if we metsomewhere I suppose on account of my being jewess looking after mymother he used to amuse me the things he said with the half slootheringsmile on him and all the Doyles said he was going to stand for a member ofParliament O wasnt I the born fool to believe all his blather about homerule and the land league sending me that long strool of a song out of theHuguenots to sing in French to be more classy O beau pays de la Tourainethat I never even sang once explaining and rigmaroling about religion andpersecution he wont let you enjoy anything naturally then might he as agreat favour the very st opportunity he got a chance in Brighton squarerunning into my bedroom pretending the ink got on his hands to wash it offwith the Albion milk and sulphur soap I used to use and the gelatine stillround it O I laughed myself sick at him that day I better not make analnight sitting on this affair they ought to make chambers a natural size sothat a woman could sit on it properly he kneels down to do it I supposethere isnt in all creation another man with the habits he has look at the wayhes sleeping at the foot of the bed how can he without a hard bolster its wellhe doesnt kick or he might knock out all my teeth breathing with his handon his nose like that Indian god he took me to show one wet Sunday in themuseum in Kildare street all yellow in a pinafore lying on his side on hishand with his ten toes sticking out that he said was a bigger religion thanthe jews and Our Lords both put together all over Asia imitating him as hesalways imitating everybody I suppose he used to sleep at the foot of the bedtoo with his big square feet up in his wifes mouth damn this stinking thinganyway wheres this those napkins are ah yes I know I hope the old pressdoesnt creak ah I knew it would hes sleeping hard had a good timesomewhere still she must have given him great value for his money of coursehe has to pay for it from her O this nuisance of a thing I hope theyll havesomething better for us in the other world tying ourselves up God help usthats all right for tonight now the lumpy old jingly bed always reminds meof old Cohen I suppose he scratched himself in it often enough and hethinks father bought it from Lord Napier that I used to admire when I wasa little girl because I told him easy piano O I like my bed God here we areas bad as ever after  years how many houses were we in at all Raymondterrace and Ontario terrace and Lombard street and Holles street and hegoes about whistling every time were on the run again his huguenots or thefrogs march pretending to help the men with our  sticks of furniture andthen the City Arms hotel worse and worse says Warden Daly that charmingplace on the landing always somebody inside praying then leaving all theirstinks after them always know who was in there last every time were justgetting on right something happens or he puts his big foot in it Thoms andHelys and Mr Cuffes and Drimmies either hes going to be run into prisonover his old lottery tickets that was to be all our salvations or he goes andgives impudence well have him coming home with the sack soon out of theFreeman too like the rest on account of those Sinner Fein or the freemasonsthen well see if the little man he showed me dribbling along in the wet all byhimself round by Coadys lane will give him much consolation that he saysis so capable and sincerely Irish he is indeed judging by the sincerity of thetrousers I saw on him wait theres Georges church bells wait  quarters thehour l wait  oclock well thats a nice hour of the night for him to becoming home at to anybody climbing down into the area if anybody sawhim Ill knock him off that little habit tomorrow first Ill look at his shirtto see or Ill see if he has that French letter still in his pocketbook Isuppose he thinks I dont know deceitful men all their  pockets arent enoughfor their lies then why should we tell them even if its the truth they dontbelieve you then tucked up in bed like those babies in the AristocratsMasterpiece he brought me another time as if we hadnt enough of thatin real life without some old Aristocrat or whatever his name isdisgusting you more with those rotten pictures children with twoheads and no legs thats the kind of villainy theyre always dreamingabout with not another thing in their empty heads they ought to getslow poison the half of them then tea and toast for him buttered onboth sides and newlaid eggs I suppose Im nothing any more when Iwouldnt let him lick me in Holles street one night man man tyrantas ever for the one thing he slept on the floor half the night naked the waythe jews used when somebody dies belonged to them and wouldnt eat anybreakfast or speak a word wanting to be petted so I thought I stood outenough for one time and let him he does it all wrong too thinking only ofhis own pleasure his tongue is too flat or I dont know what he forgets thatwethen I dont Ill make him do it again if he doesnt mind himself and lockhim down to sleep in the coalcellar with the blackbeetles I wonder was it herJosie off her head with my castoffs hes such a born liar too no hed neverhave the courage with a married woman thats why he wants me and Boylanthough as for her Denis as she calls him that forlornlooking spectacle youcouldnt call him a husband yes its some little bitch hes got in with evenwhen I was with him with Milly at the College races that Hornblower withthe childs bonnet on the top of his nob let us into by the back way he wasthrowing his sheeps eyes at those two doing skirt duty up and down I triedto wink at him first no use of course and thats the way his money goes thisis the fruits of Mr Paddy Dignam yes they were all in great style at thegrand funeral in the paper Boylan brought in if they saw a real officersfuneral thatd be something reversed arms muffled drums the poor horsewalking behind in black L Boom and Tom Kernan that drunken littlebarrelly man that bit his tongue off falling down the mens W C drunk insome place or other and Martin Cunningham and the two Dedaluses andFanny MCoys husband white head of cabbage skinny thing with a turn inher eye trying to sing my songs shed want to be born all over again and herold green dress with the lowneck as she cant attract them any other way likedabbling on a rainy day I see it all now plainly and they call that friendshipkilling and then burying one another and they all with their wives andfamilies at home more especially Jack Power keeping that barmaid he doesof course his wife is always sick or going to be sick or just getting betterof it and hes a goodlooking man still though hes getting a bit grey over theears theyre a nice lot all of them well theyre not going to get my husbandagain into their clutches if I can help it making fun of him then behind hisback I know well when he goes on with his idiotics because he has senseenough not to squander every penny piece he earns down their gullets andlooks after his wife and family goodfornothings poor Paddy Dignam all thesame Im sorry in a way for him what are his wife and  children going todo unless he was insured comical little teetotum always stuck up in somepub corner and her or her son waiting Bill Bailey wont you please comehome her widows weeds wont improve her appearance theyre awfullybecoming though if youre goodlooking what men wasnt he yes he was atthe Glencree dinner and Ben Dollard base barreltone the night he borrowedthe swallowtail to sing out of in Holles street squeezed and squashed intothem and grinning all over his big Dolly face like a wellwhipped childsbotty didnt he look a balmy ballocks sure enough that must have been aspectacle on the stage imagine paying /- in the preserved seats for that tosee him trotting off in his trowlers and Simon Dedalus too he was alwaysturning up half screwed singing the second verse first the old love is the newwas one of his so sweetly sang the maiden on the hawthorn bough he wasalways on for flirtyfying too when I sang Maritana with him at FreddyMayers private opera he had a delicious glorious voice Phoebe dearestgoodbye sweetheart sweetheart he always sang it not like Bartell Darcysweet tart goodbye of course he had the gift of the voice so there was no artin it all over you like a warm showerbath O Maritana wildwood flower wesang splendidly though it was a bit too high for my register even transposedand he was married at the time to May Goulding but then hed say or dosomething to knock the good out of it hes a widower now I wonder whatsort is his son he says hes an author and going to be a university professorof Italian and Im to take lessons what is he driving at now showing him myphoto its not good of me I ought to have got it taken in drapery that neverlooks out of fashion still I look young in it I wonder he didnt make him apresent of it altogether and me too after all why not I saw him driving downto the Kingsbridge station with his father and mother I was in mourningthats  years ago now yes hed be  though what was the good in goinginto mourning for what was neither one thing nor the other the first cry wasenough for me I heard the deathwatch too ticking in the wall of course heinsisted hed go into mourning for the cat I suppose hes a man now by thistime he was an innocent boy then and a darling little fellow in his lordFauntleroy suit and curly hair like a prince on the stage when I saw him atMat Dillons he liked me too I remember they all do wait by God yes waityes hold on he was on the cards this morning when I laid out the deckunion with a young stranger neither dark nor fair you met before I thoughtit meant him but hes no chicken nor a stranger either besides my face wasturned the other way what was the th card after that the  of spades for ajourney by land then there was a letter on its way and scandals too the queens and the  of diamonds for a rise in society yes wait it all came outand  red s for new garments look at that and didnt I dream something tooyes there was something about poetry in it I hope he hasnt long greasy hairhanging into his eyes or standing up like a red Indian what do they goabout like that for only getting themselves and their poetry laughed at Ialways liked poetry when I was a girl first I thought he was a poet like lordByron and not an ounce of it in his composition I thought he was quitedifferent I wonder is he too young hes about wait  I was married  Millyis  yesterday  what age was he then at Dillons  or  about  I supposehes  or more Im not too old for him if hes  or  I hope hes not thatstuckup university student sort no otherwise he wouldnt go sitting down inthe old kitchen with him taking Eppss cocoa and talking of course hepretended to understand it all probably he told him he was out of Trinitycollege hes very young to be a professor I hope hes not a professor likeGoodwin was he was a potent professor of John Jameson they all writeabout some woman in their poetry well I suppose he wont find many like mewhere softly sighs of love the light guitar where poetry is in the air theblue sea and the moon shining so beautifully coming back on the nightboat fromTarifa the lighthouse at Europa point the guitar that fellow played was soexpressive will I ever go back there again all new faces two glancing eyes alattice hid Ill sing that for him theyre my eyes if hes anything of a poet twoeyes as darkly bright as loves own star arent those beautiful words as lovesyoung star itll be a change the Lord knows to have an intelligent person totalk to about yourself not always listening to him and Billy Prescotts ad andKeyess ad and Tom the Devils ad then if anything goes wrong in theirbusiness we have to suffer Im sure hes very distinguished Id like to meet aman like that God not those other ruck besides hes young those fine youngmen I could see down in Margate strand bathingplace from the side of therock standing up in the sun naked like a God or something and thenplunging into the sea with them why arent all men like that thered be someconsolation for a woman like that lovely little statue he bought I could lookat him all day long curly head and his shoulders his finger up for you tolisten theres real beauty and poetry for you I often felt I wanted to kiss himall over also his lovely young cock there so simple I wouldnt mind takinghim in my mouth if nobody was looking as if it was asking you to suck it soclean and white he looks with his boyish face I would too in / a minuteeven if some of it went down what its only like gruel or the dew theres nodanger besides hed be so clean compared with those pigs of men I supposenever dream of washing it from I years end to the other the most of themonly thats what gives the women the moustaches Im sure itll be grand if Ican only get in with a handsome young poet at my age Ill throw them the stthing in the morning till I see if the wishcard comes out or Ill try pairingthe lady herself and see if he comes out Ill read and study all I can find orlearn a bit off by heart if I knew who he likes so he wont think me stupid ifhe thinks all women are the same and I can teach him the other part Illmake him feel all over him till he half faints under me then hell write aboutme lover and mistress publicly too with our  photographs in all the paperswhen he becomes famous O but then what am I going to do about himthough no thats no way for him has he no manners nor no refinement nor nonothing in his nature slapping us behind like that on my bottom because Ididnt call him Hugh the ignoramus that doesnt know poetry from acabbage thats what you get for not keeping them in their proper placepulling off his shoes and trousers there on the chair before me so barefacedwithout even asking permission and standing out that vulgar way in the halfof a shirt they wear to be admired like a priest or a butcher or those oldhypocrites in the time of Julius Caesar of course hes right enough in hisway to pass the time as a joke sure you might as well be in bed with whatwith a lion God Im sure hed have something better to say for himself an oldLion would O well I suppose its because they were so plump and temptingin my short petticoat he couldnt resist they excite myself sometimes its wellfor men all the amount of pleasure they get off a womans body were soround and white for them always I wished I was one myself for a changejust to try with that thing they have swelling up on you so hard and at thesame time so soft when you touch it my uncle John has a thing long I heardthose cornerboys saying passing the comer of Marrowbone lane my auntMary has a thing hairy because it was dark and they knew a girl waspassing it didnt make me blush why should it either its only nature and heputs his thing long into my aunt Marys hairy etcetera and turns out to beyou put the handle in a sweepingbrush men again all over they can pick andchoose what they please a married woman or a fast widow or a girl for theirdifferent tastes like those houses round behind Irish street no but were to bealways chained up theyre not going to be chaining me up no damn fearonce I start I tell you for their stupid husbands jealousy why cant we allremain friends over it instead of quarrelling her husband found it out whatthey did together well naturally and if he did can he undo it hes coronadoanyway whatever he does and then he going to the other mad extreme aboutthe wife in Fair Tyrants of course the man never even casts a nd thoughton the husband or wife either its the woman he wants and he gets her whatelse were we given all those desires for Id like to know I cant help it if Imyoung still can I its a wonder Im not an old shrivelled hag before my timeliving with him so cold never embracing me except sometimes when hesasleep the wrong end of me not knowing I suppose who he has any manthatd kiss a womans bottom Id throw my hat at him after that hed kissanything unnatural where we havent I atom of any kind of expression in usall of us the same  lumps of lard before ever Id do that to a man pfooh thedirty brutes the mere thought is enough I kiss the feet of you senorita theressome sense in that didnt he kiss our halldoor yes he did what a madmannobody understands his cracked ideas but me still of course a woman wantsto be embraced  times a day almost to make her look young no matter bywho so long as to be in love or loved by somebody if the fellow you wantisnt there sometimes by the Lord God I was thinking would I go around bythe quays there some dark evening where nobodyd know me and pick up asailor off the sea thatd be hot on for it and not care a pin whose I was onlydo it off up in a gate somewhere or one of those wildlooking gipsies inRathfarnham had their camp pitched near the Bloomfield laundry to tryand steal our things if they could I only sent mine there a few times for thename model laundry sending me back over and over some old ones oddstockings that blackguardlooking fellow with the fine eyes peeling a switchattack me in the dark and ride me up against the wall without a word or amurderer anybody what they do themselves the fine gentlemen in their silkhats that K C lives up somewhere this way coming out of Hardwicke lanethe night he gave us the fish supper on account of winning over the boxingmatch of course it was for me he gave it I knew him by his gaiters and thewalk and when I turned round a minute after just to see there was a womanafter coming out of it too some filthy prostitute then he goes home to hiswife after that only I suppose the half of those sailors are rotten again withdisease O move over your big carcass out of that for the love of Mike listento him the winds that waft my sighs to thee so well he may sleep and sigh thegreat Suggester Don Poldo de la Flora if he knew how he came out on thecards this morning hed have something to sigh for a dark man in someperplexity between  s too in prison for Lord knows what he does that Idont know and Im to be slooching around down in the kitchen to get hislordship his breakfast while hes rolled up like a mummy will I indeed didyou ever see me running Id just like to see myself at it show them attentionand they treat you like dirt I dont care what anybody says itd be muchbetter for the world to be governed by the women in it you wouldnt seewomen going and killing one another and slaughtering when do you eversee women rolling around drunk like they do or gambling every penny theyhave and losing it on horses yes because a woman whatever she does sheknows where to stop sure they wouldnt be in the world at all only for usthey dont know what it is to be a woman and a mother how could theywhere would they all of them be if they hadnt all a mother to look afterthem what I never had thats why I suppose hes running wild now out atnight away from his books and studies and not living at home on account ofthe usual rowy house I suppose well its a poor case that those that have afine son like that theyre not satisfied and I none was he not able to make oneit wasnt my fault we came together when I was watching the two dogs up inher behind in the middle of the naked street that disheartened me altogetherI suppose I oughtnt to have buried him in that little woolly jacket I knittedcrying as I was but give it to some poor child but I knew well Id never haveanother our st death too it was we were never the same since O Im notgoing to think myself into the glooms about that any more I wonder why hewouldnt stay the night I felt all the time it was somebody strange he broughtin instead of roving around the city meeting God knows who nightwalkersand pickpockets his poor mother wouldnt like that if she was alive ruininghimself for life perhaps still its a lovely hour so silent I used to lovecoming home after dances the air of the night they have friends they can talkto weve none either he wants what he wont get or its some woman ready tostick her knife in you I hate that in women no wonder they treat us the waythey do we are a dreadful lot of bitches I suppose its all the troubles wehave makes us so snappy Im not like that he could easy have slept in there onthe sofa in the other room I suppose he was as shy as a boy he being so younghardly  of me in the next room hed have heard me on the chamber arrahwhat harm Dedalus I wonder its like those names in Gibraltar DelapazDelagracia they had the devils queer names there father Vilaplana of SantaMaria that gave me the rosary Rosales y OReilly in the Calle las SieteRevueltas and Pisimbo and Mrs Opisso in Governor street O what a nameId go and drown myself in the first river if I had a name like her O my andall the bits of streets Paradise ramp and Bedlam ramp and Rodgers rampand Crutchetts ramp and the devils gap steps well small blame to me if I ama harumscarum I know I am a bit I declare to God I dont feel a day olderthan then I wonder could I get my tongue round any of the Spanish comoesta usted muy bien gracias y usted see I havent forgotten it all I thought Ihad only for the grammar a noun is the name of any person place or thingpity I never tried to read that novel cantankerous Mrs Rubio lent me byValera with the questions in it all upside down the two ways I always knewwed go away in the end I can tell him the Spanish and he tell me the Italianthen hell see Im not so ignorant what a pity he didnt stay Im sure the poorfellow was dead tired and wanted a good sleep badly I could have broughthim in his breakfast in bed with a bit of toast so long as I didnt do it onthe knife for bad luck or if the woman was going her rounds with thewatercress and something nice and tasty there are a few olives in the kitchenhe might like I never could bear the look of them in Abrines I could do thecriada the room looks all right since I changed it the other way you seesomething was telling me all the time Id have to introduce myself notknowing me from Adam very funny wouldnt it Im his wife or pretend wewere in Spain with him half awake without a Gods notion where he is doshuevos estrellados senor Lord the cracked things come into my headsometimes itd be great fun supposing he stayed with us why not theres theroom upstairs empty and Millys bed in the back room he could do hiswriting and studies at the table in there for all the scribbling he does at itand if he wants to read in bed in the morning like me as hes making thebreakfast for I he can make it for  Im sure Im not going to take in lodgersoff the street for him if he takes a gesabo of a house like this Id love tohave a long talk with an intelligent welleducated person Id have to get a nicepair of red slippers like those Turks with the fez used to sell or yellow anda nice semitransparent morning gown that I badly want or a peachblossomdressing jacket like the one long ago in Walpoles only / or / Ill justgive him one more chance Ill get up early in the morning Im sick of Cohensold bed in any case I might go over to the markets to see all the vegetablesand cabbages and tomatoes and carrots and all kinds of splendid fruits allcoming in lovely and fresh who knows whod be the st man Id meet theyreout looking for it in the morning Mamy Dillon used to say they are and thenight too that was her massgoing Id love a big juicy pear now to melt inyour mouth like when I used to be in the longing way then Ill throw him uphis eggs and tea in the moustachecup she gave him to make his mouthbigger I suppose hed like my nice cream too I know what Ill do Ill go aboutrather gay not too much singing a bit now and then mi fa pieta Masettothen Ill start dressing myself to go out presto non son piu forte Ill put onmy best shift and drawers let him have a good eyeful out of that to make hismicky stand for him Ill let him know if thats what he wanted that his wife isI s l o fucked yes and damn well fucked too up to my neck nearly not by him or  times handrunning theres the mark of his spunk on the clean sheet Iwouldnt bother to even iron it out that ought to satisfy him if you dontbelieve me feel my belly unless I made him stand there and put him into meIve a mind to tell him every scrap and make him do it out in front of meserve him right its all his own fault if I am an adulteress as the thing inthe gallery said O much about it if thats all the harm ever we did in thisvale of tears God knows its not much doesnt everybody only they hide it Isuppose thats what a woman is supposed to be there for or He wouldnt have madeus the way He did so attractive to men then if he wants to kiss my bottom Illdrag open my drawers and bulge it right out in his face as large as life hecan stick his tongue  miles up my hole as hes there my brown part then Illtell him I want LI or perhaps /- Ill tell him I want to buy underclothesthen if he gives me that well he wont be too bad I dont want to soak it allout of him like other women do I could often have written out a fine chequefor myself and write his name on it for a couple of pounds a few times heforgot to lock it up besides he wont spend it Ill let him do it off on mebehind provided he doesnt smear all my good drawers O I suppose thatcant be helped Ill do the indifferent l or  questions Ill know by the answerswhen hes like that he cant keep a thing back I know every turn in him Illtighten my bottom well and let out a few smutty words smellrump or lickmy shit or the first mad thing comes into my head then Ill suggest about yesO wait now sonny my turn is coming Ill be quite gay and friendly over it Obut I was forgetting this bloody pest of a thing pfooh you wouldnt knowwhich to laugh or cry were such a mixture of plum and apple no Ill have towear the old things so much the better itll be more pointed hell never knowwhether he did it or not there thats good enough for you any old thing at allthen Ill wipe him off me just like a business his omission then Ill go out Illhave him eying up at the ceiling where is she gone now make him want methats the only way a quarter after what an unearthly hour I suppose theyrejust getting up in China now combing out their pigtails for the day wellsoon have the nuns ringing the angelus theyve nobody coming in to spoiltheir sleep except an odd priest or two for his night office or the alarmclocknext door at cockshout clattering the brains out of itself let me see if I candoze off      what kind of flowers are those they invented like the starsthe wallpaper in Lombard street was much nicer the apron he gave me waslike that something only I only wore it twice better lower this lamp and tryagain so as I can get up early Ill go to Lambes there beside Findlaters andget them to send us some flowers to put about the place in case he bringshim home tomorrow today I mean no no Fridays an unlucky day first Iwant to do the place up someway the dust grows in it I think while Imasleep then we can have music and cigarettes I can accompany him first Imust clean the keys of the piano with milk whatll I wear shall I wear a whiterose or those fairy cakes in Liptons I love the smell of a rich big shop atd a lb or the other ones with the cherries in them and the pinky sugar I Id*~~ check end of prev line also!a couple of lbs of those a nice plant for the middle of the table Id get thatcheaper in wait wheres this I saw them not long ago I love flowers Id love tohave the whole place swimming in roses God of heaven theres nothing likenature the wild mountains then the sea and the waves rushing then thebeautiful country with the fields of oats and wheat and all kinds of thingsand all the fine cattle going about that would do your heart good to seerivers and lakes and flowers all sorts of shapes and smells and coloursspringing up even out of the ditches primroses and violets nature it is as forthem saying theres no God I wouldnt give a snap of my two fingers for alltheir learning why dont they go and create something I often asked himatheists or whatever they call themselves go and wash the cobbles offthemselves first then they go howling for the priest and they dying and whywhy because theyre afraid of hell on account of their bad conscience ah yesI know them well who was the first person in the universe before there wasanybody that made it all who ah that they dont know neither do I so thereyou are they might as well try to stop the sun from rising tomorrow the sunshines for you he said the day we were lying among the rhododendrons onHowth head in the grey tweed suit and his straw hat the day I got him topropose to me yes first I gave him the bit of seedcake out of my mouth andit was leapyear like now yes  years ago my God after that long kiss I nearlost my breath yes he said I was a flower of the mountain yes so we areflowers all a womans body yes that was one true thing he said in his life andthe sun shines for you today yes that was why I liked him because I saw heunderstood or felt what a woman is and I knew I could always get roundhim and I gave him all the pleasure I could leading him on till he asked meto say yes and I wouldnt answer first only looked out over the sea and thesky I was thinking of so many things he didnt know of Mulvey and MrStanhope and Hester and father and old captain Groves and the sailorsplaying all birds fly and I say stoop and washing up dishes they called it onthe pier and the sentry in front of the governors house with the thing roundhis white helmet poor devil half roasted and the Spanish girls laughing intheir shawls and their tall combs and the auctions in the morning theGreeks and the jews and the Arabs and the devil knows who else from allthe ends of Europe and Duke street and the fowl market all cluckingoutside Larby Sharons and the poor donkeys slipping half asleep and thevague fellows in the cloaks asleep in the shade on the steps and the bigwheels of the carts of the bulls and the old castle thousands of years old yesand those handsome Moors all in white and turbans like kings asking youto sit down in their little bit of a shop and Ronda with the old windows ofthe posadas  glancing eyes a lattice hid for her lover to kiss the iron andthe wineshops half open at night and the castanets and the night we missedthe boat at Algeciras the watchman going about serene with his lamp and Othat awful deepdown torrent O and the sea the sea crimson sometimes likefire and the glorious sunsets and the figtrees in the Alameda gardens yesand all the queer little streets and the pink and blue and yellow houses andthe rosegardens and the jessamine and geraniums and cactuses andGibraltar as a girl where I was a Flower of the mountain yes when I put therose in my hair like the Andalusian girls used or shall I wear a red yes andhow he kissed me under the Moorish wall and I thought well as well him asanother and then I asked him with my eyes to ask again yes and then heasked me would I yes to say yes my mountain flower and first I put myarms around him yes and drew him down to me so he could feel my breastsall perfume yes and his heart was going like mad and yes I said yes I willYes.Trieste-Zurich-Paris-End of The Project Gutenberg Etext of Ulyssesby James JoyceThe Hitch Hikers Guide to the Galaxy for Jonny Brock and Clare Gorst and all other Arlingtoniansfor tea, sympathy, and a sofaFar out in the uncharted backwaters of the unfashionable  end  ofthe  western  spiral  arm  of  the Galaxy lies a small unregardedyellow sun.Orbiting this at a distance of roughly ninety-two  million  milesis  an  utterly insignificant little blue green planet whose ape-descended life forms are so amazingly primitive that  they  stillthink digital watches are a pretty neat idea.This planet has - or rather had - a problem, which was this: mostof  the  people  on  it were unhappy for pretty much of the time.Many solutions were suggested for this problem, but most of thesewere  largely  concerned with the movements of small green piecesof paper, which is odd because on the whole it wasnt  the  smallgreen pieces of paper that were unhappy.And so the problem remained; lots of the people  were  mean,  andmost of them were miserable, even the ones with digital watches.Many were increasingly of the opinion that theyd all made a  bigmistake  in  coming  down  from the trees in the first place. Andsome said that even the trees had been a bad move,  and  that  noone should ever have left the oceans.And then, one Thursday, nearly two thousand years after  one  manhad  been nailed to a tree for saying how great it would be to benice to people for a change, one girl sitting on  her  own  in  asmall  cafe  in  Rickmansworth suddenly realized what it was thathad been going wrong all this time, and she finally knew how  theworld  could  be  made  a  good and happy place. This time it wasright, it would work, and no one would  have  to  get  nailed  toanything.Sadly, however, before she could get to a phone  to  tell  anyone-about  it,  a  terribly stupid catastrophe occurred, and the ideawas lost forever.This is not her story.But it is the story of that terrible stupid catastrophe and  someof its consequences.It is also the story of a book, a book called The  Hitch  HikersGuide  to  the  Galaxy  -  not  an Earth book, never published onEarth, and until the terrible catastrophe occurred, never seen orheard of by any Earthman.Nevertheless, a wholly remarkable book.in fact it was probably the most remarkable book ever to come outof  the  great  publishing  houses  of  Ursa  Minor - of which noEarthman had ever heard either.Not only is it a wholly remarkable book,  it  is  also  a  highlysuccessful  one  -  more  popular  than  the  Celestial Home CareOmnibus, better selling than Fifty More  Things  to  do  in  ZeroGravity, and more controversial than Oolon Colluphids trilogy ofphilosophical blockbusters Where God Went  Wrong,  Some  More  ofGods Greatest Mistakes and Who is this God Person Anyway?In many of the more relaxed civilizations on  the  Outer  EasternRim of the Galaxy, the Hitch Hikers Guide has already supplantedthe great Encyclopedia Galactica as the  standard  repository  ofall  knowledge  and  wisdom, for though it has many omissions andcontains much that is apocryphal, or at least wildly  inaccurate,it  scores  over the older, more pedestrian work in two importantrespects.First, it is slightly cheaper; and  secondly  it  has  the  wordsDont Panic inscribed in large friendly letters on its cover.But the story of this terrible, stupid Thursday, the story of itsextraordinary   consequences,   and   the  story   of  how  theseconsequences are inextricably intertwined  with  this  remarkablebook begins very simply.It begins with a house.The house stood on a slight rise just on the edge of the village.It  stood  on  its  own  and  looked  over a broad spread of WestCountry farmland. Not a remarkable house by any means  -  it  wasabout  thirty  years old, squattish, squarish, made of brick, andhad four windows set in the front of a size and proportion  whichmore or less exactly failed to please the eye.The only person for whom the house was in  any  way  special  wasArthur  Dent, and that was only because it happened to be the onehe lived in. He had lived in it for about three years, ever sincehe  had  moved  out  of  London  because  it made him nervous andirritable. He was about thirty as well,  dark  haired  and  never-quite at ease with himself. The thing that used to worry him mostwas the fact that people always used  to  ask  him  what  he  waslooking  so  worried  about.  He  worked  in local radio which healways used to tell his friends was a lot more  interesting  thanthey  probably  thought. It was, too - most of his friends workedin advertising.It hadnt properly registered with Arthur that the council wantedto knock down his house and build an bypass instead.At eight oclock on Thursday  morning  Arthur  didnt  feel  verygood.  He  woke  up blearily, got up, wandered blearily round hisroom, opened a window, saw a bulldozer, found his  slippers,  andstomped off to the bathroom to wash.Toothpaste on the brush - so. Scrub.Shaving mirror - pointing at the ceiling. He adjusted it.  For  amoment  it  reflected  a  second  bulldozer  through the bathroomwindow. Properly adjusted, it reflected Arthur  Dents  bristles.He shaved them off, washed, dried, and stomped off to the kitchento find something pleasant to put in his mouth.Kettle, plug, fridge, milk, coffee. Yawn.The word bulldozer wandered through his  mind  for  a  moment  insearch of something to connect with.The bulldozer outside the kitchen window was quite a big one.He stared at it."Yellow," he thought and stomped off back to his bedroom  to  getdressed.Passing the bathroom he stopped to drink a large glass of  water,and  another.  He began to suspect that he was hung over. Why washe hung over? Had he been drinking the night before? He  supposedthat  he must have been. He caught a glint in the shaving mirror."Yellow," he thought and stomped on to the bedroom.He stood and thought. The pub, he thought. Oh dear, the  pub.  Hevaguely remembered being angry, angry about something that seemedimportant. Hed been telling  people  about  it,  telling  peopleabout  it  at  great  length,  he  rather suspected: his clearestvisual recollection was of glazed looks on other peoples  faces.Something  about a new bypass he had just found out about. It hadbeen in the pipeline for months only no one seemed to have  knownabout  it.  Ridiculous.  He  took  a swig of water. It would sortitself out, hed decided, no one wanted  a  bypass,  the  councildidnt have a leg to stand on. It would sort itself out.God what a terrible hangover it had earned him though. He  lookedat  himself  in  the  wardrobe  mirror.  He stuck out his tongue."Yellow," he thought. The word yellow wandered through  his  mindin search of something to connect with.Fifteen seconds later he was out of the house and lying in  frontof a big yellow bulldozer that was advancing up his garden path.Mr L Prosser was, as they say, only human. In other words he  wasa carbon-based life form descended from an ape. More specificallyhe was forty, fat and shabby and worked for  the  local  council.Curiously  enough, though he didnt know it, he was also a directmale-line  descendant  of  Genghis   Khan,   though   interveninggenerations  and  racial  mixing had so juggled his genes that hehad  no  discernible  Mongoloid  characteristics,  and  the  onlyvestiges  left  in  Mr  L  Prosser  of his mighty ancestry were apronounced stoutness about the tum and a predilection for  littlefur hats.He was by no means a great warrior: in  fact  he  was  a  nervousworried  man.  Today  he  was  particularly  nervous  and worriedbecause something had gone seriously wrong with his job  -  whichwas  to  see  that Arthur Dents house got cleared out of the waybefore the day was out."Come off it, Mr Dent,", he said, "you cant win  you  know.  Youcant  lie  in  front of the bulldozer indefinitely." He tried tomake his eyes blaze fiercely but they just wouldnt do it.Arthur lay in the mud and squelched at him."Im game," he said, "well see who rusts first.""Im afraid youre going to have to accept it," said  Mr  Prossergripping  his  fur  hat and rolling it round the top of his head,"this bypass has got to be built and its going to be built!""First Ive heard of it," said Arthur,  "whys  it  going  to  bebuilt?"Mr Prosser shook his finger at him for a bit,  then  stopped  andput it away again."What do you mean, whys it got to be built?" he  said.  "Its  abypass. Youve got to build bypasses."Bypasses are devices which allow some people to drive from  pointA  to  point B very fast whilst other people dash from point B topoint A very fast. People  living  at  point  C,  being  a  pointdirectly  in  between,  are often given to wonder whats so greatabout point A that so many people of point B are so keen  to  getthere,  and  whats so great about point B that so many people ofpoint A are so keen to get there. They  often  wish  that  peoplewould  just  once and for all work out where the hell they wantedto be.Mr Prosser wanted to be at point D. Point D  wasnt  anywhere  inparticular, it was just any convenient point a very long way frompoints A, B and C. He would have a nice little cottage  at  pointD,  with  axes over the door, and spend a pleasant amount of timeat point E, which would be the nearest pub to point D.  His  wifeof  course  wanted  climbing roses, but he wanted axes. He didntknow why - he  just  liked  axes.  He  flushed  hotly  under  thederisive grins of the bulldozer drivers.He shifted his weight from foot  to  foot,  but  it  was  equallyuncomfortable  on  each.  Obviously somebody had been appallinglyincompetent and he hoped to God it wasnt him.Mr Prosser said: "You were quite entitled to make any suggestionsor protests at the appropriate time you know.""Appropriate time?" hooted Arthur. "Appropriate time? The first Iknew  about it was when a workman arrived at my home yesterday. Iasked him if hed come to clean the windows and he said  no  hedcome  to  demolish  the house. He didnt tell me straight away ofcourse. Oh no. First he wiped a couple of windows and charged  mea fiver. Then he told me.""But Mr Dent, the plans have been available in the local planningoffice for the last nine month.""Oh yes, well as soon as I heard I went  straight  round  to  seethem,  yesterday  afternoon.  You hadnt exactly gone out of yourway to call attention to them  had  you?  I  mean  like  actuallytelling anybody or anything.""But the plans were on display ...""On display? I eventually had to go down to the  cellar  to  findthem.""Thats the display department.""With a torch.""Ah, well the lights had probably gone.""So had the stairs.""But look, you found the notice didnt you?""Yes," said Arthur, "yes I did. It was on display in  the  bottomof  a  locked  filing  cabinet stuck in a disused lavatory with asign on the door saying Beware of the Leopard."A cloud passed overhead. It cast a shadow over Arthur Dent as  helay  propped  up  on  his elbow in the cold mud. It cast a shadowover Arthur Dents house. Mr Prosser frowned at it."Its not as if its a particularly nice house," he said."Im sorry, but I happen to like it.""Youll like the bypass.""Oh shut up," said Arthur Dent. "Shut up and go  away,  and  takeyour  bloody  bypass  with you. You havent got a leg to stand onand you know it."Mr Prossers mouth opened and closed a couple of times while  hismind  was  for  a  moment  filled  with inexplicable but terriblyattractive visions of Arthur Dents  house  being  consumed  withfire  and  Arthur himself running screaming from the blazing ruinwith at least three hefty spears protruding  from  his  back.  MrProsser  was often bothered with visions like these and they madehim feel very nervous. He stuttered for a moment and then  pulledhimself together."Mr Dent," he said."Hello? Yes?" said Arthur."Some factual information for you. Have you  any  idea  how  muchdamage that bulldozer would suffer if I just let it roll straightover you?""How much?" said Arthur."None at  all,"  said  Mr  Prosser,  and  stormed  nervously  offwondering why his brain was filled with a thousand hairy horsemenall shouting at him.By a curious  coincidence,  None  at  all  is  exactly  how  muchsuspicion  the  ape-descendant  Arthur  Dent  had that one of hisclosest friends was not descended from an ape, but  was  in  factfrom  a  small  planet in the vicinity of Betelgeuse and not fromGuildford as he usually claimed.Arthur Dent had never, ever suspected this.This friend of his had first arrived on the planet  some  fifteenEarth  years  previously, and he had worked hard to blend himselfinto Earth society - with, it must be  said,  some  success.  Forinstance he had spent those fifteen years pretending to be an outof work actor, which was plausible enough.He had made one careless blunder though, because he had skimped abit  on his preparatory research. The information he had gatheredhad led him to choose the name "Ford  Prefect"  as  being  nicelyinconspicuous.He was not conspicuously tall, his features were striking but notconspicuously  handsome.  His  hair  was  wiry  and gingerish andbrushed backwards from the temples. His skin seemed to be  pulledbackwards  from  the  nose. There was something very slightly oddabout him, but it was difficult to say what it  was.  Perhaps  itwas  that  his eyes didnt blink often enough and when you talkedto him for any length of time your eyes  began  involuntarily  towater  on  his behalf. Perhaps it was that he smiled slightly toobroadly and gave people the  unnerving  impression  that  he  wasabout to go for their neck.He struck most of  the  friends  he  had  made  on  Earth  as  aneccentric,  but  a  harmless  one  --  an unruly boozer with someoddish habits. For instance he would often  gatecrash  universityparties,   get   badly   drunk   and  start  making  fun  of  anyastrophysicist he could find till he got thrown out.Sometimes he would get seized with  oddly  distracted  moods  andstare  into the sky as if hypnotized until someone asked him whathe was doing. Then he would start guiltily for  a  moment,  relaxand grin."Oh, just looking for flying saucers," he would joke and everyonewould  laugh  and  ask  him  what  sort  of flying saucers he waslooking for."Green ones!" he would reply with a wicked grin, laugh wildly fora  moment  and then suddenly lunge for the nearest bar and buy anenormous round of drinks.Evenings like this usually ended badly. Ford would get out of hisskull  on whisky, huddle into a corner with some girl and explainto her in slurred phrases that honestly the colour of the  flyingsaucers didnt matter that much really.Thereafter, staggering semi-paralytic down the night  streets  hewould  often  ask  passing  policemen  if  they  knew  the way toBetelgeuse. The  policemen  would  usually  say  something  like,"Dont you think its about time you went off home sir?""Im trying to baby, Im trying  to,"  is  what  Ford  invariablyreplied on these occasions.In fact what he  was  really  looking  out  for  when  he  stareddistractedly  into the night sky was any kind of flying saucer atall. The reason he said green was that green was the  traditionalspace livery of the Betelgeuse trading scouts.Ford Prefect was desperate that any flying saucer  at  all  wouldarrive soon because fifteen years was a long time to get strandedanywhere, particularly somewhere as  mindboggingly  dull  as  theEarth.Ford wished that a flying saucer would  arrive  soon  because  heknew  how to flag flying saucers down and get lifts from them. Heknew how to see the Marvels of the Universe for less than  thirtyAltairan dollars a day.In fact, Ford Prefect was a roving  researcher  for  that  whollyremarkable book The Hitch Hikers Guide to the Galaxy.Human beings are great adaptors, and by  lunchtime  life  in  theenvirons  of Arthurs house had settled into a steady routine. Itwas Arthurs accepted role to lie squelching in  the  mud  makingoccasional  demands to see his lawyer, his mother or a good book;it was Mr Prossers accepted  role  to  tackle  Arthur  with  theoccasional  new  ploy  such  as the For the Public Good talk, theMarch of Progress talk, the They Knocked My House Down  Once  YouKnow,  Never  Looked  Back  talk and various other cajoleries andthreats; and it was the bulldozer drivers accepted role  to  sitaround  drinking  coffee and experimenting with union regulationsto see how they could  turn  the  situation  to  their  financialadvantage.The Earth moved slowly in its diurnal course.The sun was beginning to dry out the mud Arthur lay in.A shadow moved across him again."Hello Arthur," said the shadow.Arthur looked up and squinting into the sun was startled  to  seeFord Prefect standing above him."Ford! Hello, how are you?""Fine," said Ford, "look, are you busy?""Am I busy?" exclaimed Arthur. "Well, Ive  just  got  all  thesebulldozers and things to lie in front of because theyll knock myhouse down if I dont, but other  than  that  ...  well,  no  notespecially, why?"They dont have sarcasm on Betelgeuse,  and  Ford  Prefect  oftenfailed  to notice it unless he was concentrating. He said, "Good,is there anywhere we can talk?""What?" said Arthur Dent.For a few seconds Ford seemed to ignore him, and  stared  fixedlyinto  the sky like a rabbit trying to get run over by a car. Thensuddenly he squatted down beside Arthur."Weve got to talk," he said urgently."Fine," said Arthur, "talk.""And drink," said Ford. "Its vitally important that we talk  anddrink. Now. Well go to the pub in the village."He looked into the sky again, nervous, expectant."Look, dont you  understand?"  shouted  Arthur.  He  pointed  atProsser. "That man wants to knock my house down!"Ford glanced at him, puzzled."Well he can do it while youre away cant he?" he asked."But I dont want him to!""Ah.""Look, whats the matter with you Ford?" said Arthur."Nothing. Nothings the matter. Listen to me - Ive got  to  tellyou  the most important thing youve ever heard. Ive got to tellyou now, and Ive got to tell you in the saloon bar of the  Horseand Groom.""But why?""Because you are going to need a very stiff drink."Ford stared at Arthur, and Arthur was astonished to find that hiswill  was  beginning  to  weaken. He didnt realize that this wasbecause of an old drinking game that Ford learned to play in  thehyperspace  ports  that  served the madranite mining belts in thestar system of Orion Beta.The game was not unlike the Earth game called  Indian  Wrestling,and was played like this:Two contestants would sit either side of a table, with a glass infront of each of them.Between them  would  be  placed  a  bottle  of  Janx  Spirit  (asimmortalized  in that ancient Orion mining song "Oh dont give menone more of that Old Janx Spirit/ No, dont  you  give  me  nonemore  of  that  Old  Janx Spirit/ For my head will fly, my tonguewill lie, my eyes will fry and I may die/ Wont you pour  me  onemore of that sinful Old Janx Spirit").Each of the two contestants would then concentrate their will  onthe  bottle  and attempt to tip it and pour spirit into the glassof his opponent - who would then have to drink it.The bottle would then be  refilled.  The  game  would  be  playedagain. And again.Once you started to lose you would probably keep losing,  becauseone  of  the  effects  of  Janx  spirit is to depress telepsychicpower.As soon as a predetermined quantity had been consumed, the  finalloser  would  have  to  perform  a  forfeit,  which  was  usuallyobscenely biological.Ford Prefect usually played to lose.Ford stared at Arthur, who began to think  that  perhaps  he  didwant to go to the Horse and Groom after all."But what about my house ...?" he asked plaintively.Ford looked across to Mr Prosser, and suddenly a  wicked  thoughtstruck him."He wants to knock your house down?""Yes, he wants to build ...""And he cant because youre lying in front of the bulldozers?""Yes, and ...""Im sure we can come to some arrangement,"  said  Ford.  "Excuseme!" he shouted.Mr Prosser (who was arguing with a spokesman  for  the  bulldozerdrivers  about  whether  or  not Arthur Dent constituted a mentalhealth hazard, and how much they  should  get  paid  if  he  did)looked around. He was surprised and slightly alarmed to find thatArthur had company."Yes? Hello?" he called. "Has Mr Dent come to his senses yet?""Can we for the moment," called Ford, "assume that he hasnt?""Well?" sighed Mr Prosser."And can we also assume," said  Ford,  "that  hes  going  to  bestaying here all day?""So?""So all your men are going to be standing around  all  day  doingnothing?""Could be, could be ...""Well, if  youre  resigned  to  doing  that  anyway,  you  dontactually need him to lie here all the time do you?""What?""You dont," said Ford patiently, "actually need him here."Mr Prosser thought about this."Well no, not as  such...",  he  said,  "not  exactly  need  ..."Prosser  was worried. He thought that one of them wasnt making alot of sense.Ford said, "So if you would just like to take  it  as  read  thathes  actually here, then he and I could slip off down to the pubfor half an hour. How does that sound?"Mr Prosser thought it sounded perfectly potty."That sounds perfectly reasonable," he said in a reassuring  toneof voice, wondering who he was trying to reassure."And if you want to pop off for a quick one yourself  later  on,"said Ford, "we can always cover up for you in return.""Thank you very much," said Mr Prosser who no longer knew how  toplay  this  at  all,  "thank you very much, yes, thats very kind..." He frowned, then smiled, then tried  to  do  both  at  once,failed,  grasped hold of his fur hat and rolled it fitfully roundthe top of his head. He could only assume that he had just won."So," continued Ford Prefect, "if you would  just  like  to  comeover here and lie down ...""What?" said Mr Prosser."Ah, Im sorry," said Ford, "perhaps I hadnt made  myself  fullyclear.  Somebodys  got to lie in front of the bulldozers haventthey? Or there wont be anything to stop  them  driving  into  MrDents house will there?""What?" said Mr Prosser again."Its very simple," said Ford, "my client, Mr Dent, says that  hewill  stop  lying  here in the mud on the sole condition that youcome and take over from him.""What are you talking about?" said Arthur, but  Ford  nudged  himwith his shoe to be quiet."You want me," said Mr Prosser, spelling out this new thought  tohimself, "to come and lie there ...""Yes.""In front of the bulldozer?""Yes.""Instead of Mr Dent.""Yes.""In the mud.""In, as you say it, the mud."As soon as Mr Prosser realized  that  he  was  substantially  theloser  after  all,  it  was  as if a weight lifted itself off hisshoulders: this was more like the world as he knew it. He sighed."In return for which you will take Mr Dent with you down  to  thepub?""Thats it," said Ford. "Thats it exactly."Mr Prosser took a few nervous steps forward and stopped."Promise?""Promise," said Ford. He turned to Arthur."Come on," he said to him, "get up and let the man lie down."Arthur stood up, feeling as if he was in a dream.Ford beckoned to Prosser who sadly, awkwardly, sat  down  in  themud.  He  felt  that his whole life was some kind of dream and hesometimes wondered whose it was and whether  they  were  enjoyingit. The mud folded itself round his bottom and his arms and oozedinto his shoes.Ford looked at him severely."And no sneaky knocking down Mr Dents house  whilst  hes  away,alright?" he said."The mere thought," growled Mr Prosser,  "hadnt  even  begun  tospeculate,"  he  continued,  settling  himself  back,  "about themerest possibility of crossing my mind."He saw the bulldozer drivers  union  representative  approachingand  let his head sink back and closed his eyes. He was trying tomarshal his arguments for proving that he did not now  constitutea  mental  health  hazard  himself. He was far from certain aboutthis - his mind seemed to be full of noise,  horses,  smoke,  andthe  stench of blood. This always happened when he felt miserableand put upon, and he  had  never  been  able  to  explain  it  tohimself.  In a high dimension of which we know nothing the mightyKhan bellowed with rage, but Mr Prosser  only  trembled  slightlyand whimpered. He began to fell little pricks of water behind theeyelids. Bureaucratic cock-ups,  angry  men  lying  in  the  mud,indecipherable  strangers  handing  out inexplicable humiliationsand an unidentified army of horsemen laughing at him in his  head- what a day.What a day. Ford Prefect knew that it didnt  matter  a  pair  ofdingos  kidneys  whether  Arthurs house got knocked down or notnow.Arthur remained very worried."But can we trust him?" he said."Myself Id trust him to the end of the Earth," said Ford."Oh yes," said Arthur, "and how fars that?""About twelve minutes away,"  said  Ford,  "come  on,  I  need  adrink."Heres what the Encyclopedia Galactica has to say about  alcohol.It  says  that  alcohol is a colourless volatile liquid formed bythe fermentation of sugars and also notes its intoxicating effecton certain carbon-based life forms.The Hitch Hikers Guide to the Galaxy also mentions  alcohol.  Itsays  that the best drink in existence is the Pan Galactic GargleBlaster.It says that the effect of a Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster is  likehaving  your brains smashed out by a slice of lemon wrapped rounda large gold brick.The Guide also tells you on which planets the best  Pan  GalacticGargle Blasters are mixed, how much you can expect to pay for oneand what voluntary organizations exist to help  you  rehabilitateafterwards.The Guide even tells you how you can mix one yourself.Take the juice from one bottle of that Ol Janx Spirit, it says.Pour into it one measure of water from the seas of Santraginus  V-  Oh that Santraginean sea water, it says. Oh those Santragineanfish!!!Allow three cubes of Arcturan Mega-gin to melt into  the  mixture(it must be properly iced or the benzine is lost).Allow four litres of Fallian marsh gas to bubble through  it,  inmemory of all those happy Hikers who have died of pleasure in theMarshes of Fallia.Over the back of a silver spoon  float  a  measure  of  QualactinHypermint  extract,  redolent of all the heady odours of the darkQualactin Zones, subtle sweet and mystic.Drop in the tooth of an Algolian  Suntiger.  Watch  it  dissolve,spreading  the  fires of the Algolian Suns deep into the heart ofthe drink.Sprinkle Zamphuor.Add an olive.Drink ... but ... very carefully ...The Hitch Hikers Guide to the Galaxy sells  rather  better  thanthe Encyclopedia Galactica."Six pints of bitter," said Ford Prefect to  the  barman  of  theHorse and Groom. "And quickly please, the worlds about to end."The barman of the Horse and Groom didnt  deserve  this  sort  oftreatment,  he  was a dignified old man. He pushed his glasses uphis nose and blinked at Ford Prefect. Ford ignored him and staredout  of  the  window,  so the barman looked instead at Arthur whoshrugged helplessly and said nothing.So the barman said, "Oh  yes  sir?  Nice  weather  for  it,"  andstarted pulling pints.He tried again."Going to watch the match this afternoon then?"Ford glanced round at him."No, no point," he said, and looked back out of the window."Whats that, foregone conclusion then you reckon sir?" said  thebarman. "Arsenal without a chance?""No, no," said Ford, "its just that the worlds about to end.""Oh yes sir, so you said," said  the  barman,  looking  over  hisglasses  this  time  at  Arthur.  "Lucky escape for Arsenal if itdid."Ford looked back at him, genuinely surprised."No, not really," he said. He frowned.The barman breathed in heavily. "There you are sir,  six  pints,"he said.Arthur smiled at him wanly and  shrugged  again.  He  turned  andsmiled  wanly at the rest of the pub just in case any of them hadheard what was going on.None of them had, and none of them could understand what  he  wassmiling at them for.A man sitting next to Ford at the bar  looked  at  the  two  men,looked  at the six pints, did a swift burst of mental arithmetic,arrived at an answer he liked and grinned a stupid  hopeful  grinat them."Get off," said Ford, "Theyre ours,"  giving  him  a  look  thatwould have an Algolian Suntiger get on with what it was doing.Ford slapped a five-pound note on the bar.  He  said,  "Keep  thechange.""What, from a fiver? Thank you sir.""Youve got ten minutes left to spend it."The barman simply decided to walk away for a bit."Ford," said Arthur, "would you please tell me what the  hell  isgoing on?""Drink up," said Ford, "youve got three pints to get through.""Three pints?" said Arthur. "At lunchtime?"The man next to ford grinned and  nodded  happily.  Ford  ignoredhim. He said, "Time is an illusion. Lunchtime doubly so.""Very deep," said  Arthur,  "you  should  send  that  in  to  theReaders Digest. Theyve got a page for people like you.""Drink up.""Why three pints all of a sudden?""Muscle relaxant, youll need it.""Muscle relaxant?""Muscle relaxant."Arthur stared into his beer."Did I do anything wrong today,"  he  said,  "or  has  the  worldalways  been  like this and Ive been too wrapped up in myself tonotice?""Alright," said Ford, "Ill try to  explain.  How  long  have  weknown each other?""How long?" Arthur thought. "Er, about five years, maybe six," hesaid. "Most of it seemed to make some sense at the time.""Alright," said Ford. "How would you react if I said that Im notfrom  Guildford  after  all, but from a small planet somewhere inthe vicinity of Betelgeuse?"Arthur shrugged in a so-so sort of way."I dont know," he said, taking a pull of beer.  "Why  -  do  youthink its the sort of thing youre likely to say?"Ford gave up. It really wasnt worth  bothering  at  the  moment,what with the world being about to end. He just said:"Drink up."He added, perfectly factually:"The worlds about to end."Arthur gave the rest of the pub another wan smile.  The  rest  ofthe  pub  frowned  at  him. A man waved at him to stop smiling atthem and mind his own business."This must be Thursday," said Arthur musing to  himself,  sinkinglow over his beer, "I never could get the hang of Thursdays."On this particular Thursday, something was moving quietly throughthe  ionosphere  many  miles  above  the  surface  of the planet;several somethings in fact,  several  dozen  huge  yellow  chunkyslablike  somethings,  huge as office buildings, silent as birds.They soared with ease, basking in electromagnetic rays  from  thestar Sol, biding their time, grouping, preparing.The planet beneath them was almost perfectly oblivious  of  theirpresence,  which  was just how they wanted it for the moment. Thehuge yellow somethings went unnoticed at Goonhilly,  they  passedover  Cape  Canaveral  without  a  blip, Woomera and Jodrell Banklooked straight through them - which was a pity  because  it  wasexactly  the  sort  of  thing  theyd  been looking for all theseyears.The only place they registered at all was on a small black devicecalled  a  Sub-Etha  Sens-O-Matic  which  winked  away quietly toitself. It nestled in the darkness inside a leather satchel whichFord Prefect wore habitually round his neck. The contents of FordPrefects satchel were quite interesting in fact and  would  havemade any Earth physicists eyes pop out of his head, which is whyhe always concealed them by keeping a couple of dog-eared scriptsfor plays he pretended he was auditioning for stuffed in the top.Besides the Sub-Etha Sens-O-Matic  and  the  scripts  he  had  anElectronic  Thumb - a short squat black rod, smooth and matt witha couple of flat switches and dials at one end;  he  also  had  adevice  which looked rather like a largish electronic calculator.This had about a hundred tiny flat press  buttons  and  a  screenabout  four  inches  square on which any one of a million "pages"could be summoned  at  a  moments  notice.  It  looked  insanelycomplicated, and this was one of the reasons why the snug plasticcover it fitted into had the words Dont Panic printed on  it  inlarge friendly letters. The other reason was that this device wasin fact that most remarkable of all books ever to come out of thegreat  publishing  corporations of Ursa Minor - The Hitch HikersGuide to the Galaxy. The reason why it was published in the  formof  a  micro  sub  meson  electronic component is that if it wereprinted in normal book form, an interstellar  hitch  hiker  wouldrequire several inconveniently large buildings to carry it aroundin.Beneath that in Ford  Prefects  satchel  were  a  few  biros,  anotepad, and a largish bath towel from Marks and Spencer.The Hitch Hikers Guide to the Galaxy has a few things to say  onthe subject of towels.A towel, it says, is about the most  massively  useful  thing  aninterstellar  hitch hiker can have. Partly it has great practicalvalue - you can wrap it around you for warmth as you bound acrossthe cold moons of Jaglan Beta; you can lie on it on the brilliantmarble-sanded beaches of Santraginus V, inhaling  the  heady  seavapours;  you can sleep under it beneath the stars which shine soredly on the desert world of Kakrafoon; use it  to  sail  a  miniraft  down  the slow heavy river Moth; wet it for use in hand-to-hand-combat; wrap it round your head to ward off noxious fumes orto  avoid  the  gaze of the Ravenous Bugblatter Beast of Traal (amindboggingly stupid animal, it assumes that if you cant see it,it  cant  see  you - daft as a bush, but very ravenous); you canwave your towel in emergencies  as  a  distress  signal,  and  ofcourse  dry  yourself  off  with it if it still seems to be cleanenough.More importantly, a towel has immense  psychological  value.  Forsome reason, if a strag (strag: non-hitch hiker) discovers that ahitch hiker has his towel with him, he will automatically  assumethat  he  is  also  in  possession of a toothbrush, face flannel,soap, tin of biscuits, flask, compass, map, ball of string,  gnatspray,  wet  weather gear, space suit etc., etc. Furthermore, thestrag will then happily lend the hitch hiker any of  these  or  adozen  other  items  that the hitch hiker might accidentally have"lost". What the strag will think is that any man who  can  hitchthe length and breadth of the galaxy, rough it, slum it, struggleagainst terrible odds, win through, and  still  knows  where  histowel is is clearly a man to be reckoned with.Hence a phrase which has passed into hitch hiking  slang,  as  in"Hey,  you  sass  that  hoopy  Ford  Prefect? Theres a frood whoreally knows where his towel is." (Sass: know, be aware of, meet,have   sex  with;  hoopy:  really  together  guy;  frood:  reallyamazingly together guy.)Nestling quietly on top of the towel in Ford  Prefects  satchel,the Sub-Etha Sens-O-Matic began to wink more quickly. Miles abovethe surface of the planet the huge yellow somethings began to fanout.  At  Jodrell  Bank,  someone  decided it was time for a nicerelaxing cup of tea."You got a towel with you?" said Ford Prefect suddenly to Arthur.Arthur, struggling through his third pint, looked round at him."Why? What, no  ...  should  I  have?"  He  had  given  up  beingsurprised, there didnt seem to be any point any longer.Ford clicked his tongue in irritation."Drink up," he urged.At that moment the dull sound of a rumbling  crash  from  outsidefiltered  through the low murmur of the pub, through the sound ofthe jukebox, through the sound of the man next to Ford hiccuppingover the whisky Ford had eventually bought him.Arthur choked on his beer, leapt to his feet."Whats that?" he yelped."Dont worry," said Ford, "they havent started yet.""Thank God for that," said Arthur and relaxed."Its probably just your house being knocked  down,"  said  Ford,drowning his last pint."What?" shouted Arthur. Suddenly Fords spell was broken.  Arthurlooked wildly around him and ran to the window."My God they are! Theyre knocking my house down. What  the  hellam I doing in the pub, Ford?""It hardly makes any difference at this stage," said  Ford,  "letthem have their fun.""Fun?" yelped Arthur. "Fun!" He quickly checked out of the windowagain that they were talking about the same thing."Damn their fun!" he hooted and ran  out  of  the  pub  furiouslywaving  a  nearly  empty beer glass. He made no friends at all inthe pub that lunchtime."Stop, you vandals! You home wreckers!" bawled Arthur. "You  halfcrazed Visigoths, stop will you!"Ford would have to go after him. Turning quickly to the barman heasked for four packets of peanuts."There you are sir," said the barman, slapping the packets on thebar, "twenty-eight pence if youd be so kind."Ford was very kind - he gave the barman another  five-pound  noteand told him to keep the change. The barman looked at it and thenlooked at Ford. He suddenly shivered: he experienced a  momentarysensation  that  he didnt understand because no one on Earth hadever experienced it before. In moments  of  great  stress,  everylife  form  that  exists  gives  out a tiny sublimal signal. Thissignal simply communicates an exact and almost pathetic sense  ofhow far that being is from the place of his birth. On Earth it isnever possible to be further than  sixteen  thousand  miles  fromyour birthplace, which really isnt very far, so such signals aretoo minute to be noticed. Ford Prefect was at this  moment  undergreat  stress,  and  he was born  light years away in the nearvicinity of Betelgeuse.The  barman  reeled  for   a   moment,   hit   by   a   shocking,incomprehensible sense of distance. He didnt know what it meant,but he looked at Ford Prefect with a new sense of respect, almostawe."Are you serious, sir?" he said in a small whisper which had  theeffect  of  silencing  the  pub.  "You think the worlds going toend?""Yes," said Ford."But, this afternoon?"Ford had recovered himself. He was at his flippest."Yes,"  he  said  gaily,  "in  less  than  two  minutes  I  wouldestimate."The barman couldnt believe the conversation he was  having,  buthe couldnt believe the sensation he had just had either."Isnt there anything we can do about it then?" he said."No, nothing," said Ford, stuffing the peanuts into his pockets.Someone in the hushed  bar  suddenly  laughed  raucously  at  howstupid everyone had become.The man sitting next to Ford was a bit sozzled by now.  His  eyeswaved their way up to Ford."I thought," he said, "that if the world was going to end we weremeant to lie down or put a paper bag over our head or something.""If you like, yes," said Ford."Thats what they told us in the army," said  the  man,  and  hiseyes began the long trek back down to his whisky."Will that help?" asked the barman."No," said Ford and gave him a friendly smile.  "Excuse  me,"  hesaid, "Ive got to go." With a wave, he left.The pub was silent for a moment longer, and then,  embarrassinglyenough,  the man with the raucous laugh did it again. The girl hehad dragged along to the pub with him had  grown  to  loathe  himdearly  over the last hour or so, and it would probably have beena great satisfaction to her to know that in a minute and  a  halfor so he would suddenly evaporate into a whiff of hydrogen, ozoneand carbon monoxide. However, when the moment came she  would  betoo busy evaporating herself to notice it.The barman cleared his throat. He heard himself say:"Last orders, please."The huge yellow machines began  to  sink  downward  and  to  movefaster.Ford knew they were there. This wasnt the way he had wanted it.Running up the lane, Arthur had  nearly  reached  his  house.  Hedidnt  notice  how cold it had suddenly become, he didnt noticethe wind, he didnt notice the sudden irrational squall of  rain.He didnt notice anything but the caterpillar bulldozers crawlingover the rubble that had been his home."You barbarians!" he yelled. "Ill  sue  the  council  for  everypenny  its  got!  Ill  have  you hung, drawn and quartered! Andwhipped! And boiled ... until ...  until  ...  until  youve  hadenough."Ford was running after him very fast. Very very fast."And then Ill do  it  again!"  yelled  Arthur.  "And  when  Ivefinished  I  will  take  all  the little bits, and I will jump onthem!"Arthur  didnt  notice  that  the  men  were  running  from   thebulldozers;   he  didnt  notice  that  Mr  Prosser  was  staringhectically into the sky. What Mr Prosser  had  noticed  was  thathuge   yellow  somethings  were  screaming  through  the  clouds.Impossibly huge yellow somethings."And I will carry on  jumping  on  them,"  yelled  Arthur,  stillrunning,  "until  I get blisters, or I can think of anything evenmore unpleasant to do, and then ..."Arthur tripped, and fell headlong, rolled and landed flat on  hisback.  At last he noticed that something was going on. His fingershot upwards."What the hells that?" he shrieked.Whatever it was raced across the  sky  in  monstrous  yellowness,tore  the  sky apart with mind-buggering noise and leapt off intothe distance leaving the gaping air to shut behind it with a bangthat drove your ears six feet into your skull.Another one followed and did the same thing only louder.Its difficult to say exactly what the people on the  surface  ofthe  planet  were doing now, because they didnt really know whatthey were doing themselves. None of it made  a  lot  of  sense  -running  into  houses, running out of houses, howling noiselesslyat the noise. All around the world  city  streets  exploded  withpeople, cars slewed into each other as the noise fell on them andthen rolled off like a tidal wave over hills and valleys, desertsand oceans, seeming to flatten everything it hit.Only one man stood and  watched  the  sky,  stood  with  terriblesadness in his eyes and rubber bungs in his ears. He knew exactlywhat was happening and had known ever since his Sub-Etha  Sens-O-Matic  had started winking in the dead of night beside his pillarand woken him with a start. It was what he  had  waited  for  allthese  years,  but  when  he  had  deciphered  the signal patternsitting alone in his small dark room a coldness had  gripped  himand squeezed his heart. Of all the races in all of the Galaxy whocould have come and said a big hello to planet Earth, he thought,didnt it just have to be the Vogons.Still he knew what he had to do.  As  the  Vogon  craft  screamedthrough  the  air  high above him he opened his satchel. He threwaway a copy of Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor  Dreamcoat,  hethrew away a copy of Godspell: He wouldnt need them where he wasgoing. Everything was ready, everything was prepared.He knew where his towel was.A sudden silence hit the Earth. If anything it was worse than thenoise. For a while nothing happened.The great ships hung motionless in the air, over every nation  onEarth.  Motionless  they  hung, huge, heavy, steady in the sky, ablasphemy against nature. Many people went straight into shock astheir  minds  tried  to  encompass what they were looking at. Theships hung in the sky in much the same way that bricks dont.And still nothing happened.Then there was a slight whisper, a  sudden  spacious  whisper  ofopen  ambient  sound.  Every hi fi set in the world, every radio,every television, every cassette recorder,  every  woofer,  everytweeter,  every  mid-range  driver  in  the  world quietly turneditself on.Every tin can, every dust bin, every  window,  every  car,  everywine  glass,  every  sheet  of rusty metal became activated as anacoustically perfect sounding board.Before the Earth passed away it was going to be  treated  to  thevery  ultimate in sound reproduction, the greatest public addresssystem ever built.  But  there  was  no  concert,  no  music,  nofanfare, just a simple message."People of Earth, your attention please," a voice  said,  and  itwas   wonderful.   Wonderful   perfect  quadrophonic  sound  withdistortion levels so low as to make a brave man weep."This is  Prostetnic  Vogon  Jeltz  of  the  Galactic  HyperspacePlanning  Council," the voice continued. "As you will no doubt beaware, the plans for development of the outlying regions  of  theGalaxy  require  the  building  of  a  hyperspatial express routethrough your star system, and regrettably your planet is  one  ofthose  scheduled  for  demolition. The process will take slightlyless that two of your Earth minutes. Thank you."The PA died away.Uncomprehending terror settled on the watching people  of  Earth.The  terror  moved  slowly through the gathered crowds as if theywere iron fillings on a sheet of board and a  magnet  was  movingbeneath  them. Panic sprouted again, desperate fleeing panic, butthere was nowhere to flee to.Observing this, the Vogons turned on their PA again. It said:"Theres no point in acting  all  surprised  about  it.  All  theplanning  charts  and  demolition  orders have been on display inyour local planning department on Alpha  Centauri  for  fifty  ofyour  Earth  years,  so  youve  had  plenty of time to lodge anyformal complaint and its far too late to  start  making  a  fussabout it now."The PA fell silent again and its  echo  drifted  off  across  theland. The huge ships turned slowly in the sky with easy power. Onthe underside of each a hatchway opened, an empty black space.By  this  time  somebody  somewhere  must  have  manned  a  radiotransmitter,  located a wavelength and broadcasted a message backto the Vogon ships, to plead on behalf of the planet. Nobody everheard  what  they said, they only heard the reply. The PA slammedback into life again. The voice was annoyed. It said:"What do you mean  youve  never  been  to  Alpha  Centauri?  Forheavens  sake mankind, its only four light years away you know.Im sorry, but if you cant be bothered to take  an  interest  inlocal affairs thats your own lookout."Energize the demolition beams."Light poured out into the hatchways."I dont know," said the  voice  on  the  PA,  "apathetic  bloodyplanet, Ive no sympathy at all." It cut off.There was a terrible ghastly silence.There was a terrible ghastly noise.There was a terrible ghastly silence.The Vogon Constructor fleet coasted away  into  the  inky  starryvoid.Far away on the opposite spiral arm of the Galaxy,  five  hundredthousand  light  years  from  the  star  Sol,  Zaphod Beeblebrox,President of the Imperial Galactic Government,  sped  across  theseas  of  Damogran, his ion drive delta boat winking and flashingin the Damogran sun.Damogran the  hot;  Damogran  the  remote;  Damogran  the  almosttotally unheard of.Damogran, secret home of the Heart of Gold.The boat sped on across the water. It would be some  time  beforeit   reached   its   destination  because  Damogran  is  such  aninconveniently  arranged  planet.  It  consists  of  nothing  butmiddling  to  large  desert  islands separated by very pretty butannoyingly wide stretches of ocean.The boat sped on.Because of  this  topological  awkwardness  Damogran  has  alwaysremained  a  deserted  planet.  This is why the Imperial GalacticGovernment chose Damogran for the Heart of Gold project,  becauseit was so deserted and the Heart of Gold was so secret.The boat zipped and skipped across the  sea,  the  sea  that  laybetween  the  main  islands of the only archipelago of any usefulsize on the whole planet. Zaphod Beeblebrox was on his  way  fromthe  tiny  spaceport  on  Easter Island (the name was an entirelymeaningless coincidence - in Galacticspeke,  easter  means  smallflat  and  light  brown)  to  the  Heart of Gold island, which byanother meaningless coincidence was called France.One of the side effects of work on the Heart of Gold was a  wholestring of pretty meaningless coincidences.But it was not in any way a coincidence that today,  the  day  ofculmination  of  the project, the great day of unveiling, the daythat the Heart  of  Gold  was  finally  to  be  introduced  to  amarvelling Galaxy, was also a great day of culmination for ZaphodBeeblebrox. It was for the sake of this day  that  he  had  firstdecided  to  run  for  the  Presidency, a decision which had sentwaves of astonishment throughout the  Imperial  Galaxy  -  ZaphodBeeblebrox?   President?  Not  the  Zaphod  Beeblebrox?  Not  thePresident? Many had seen it as a clinching proof that  the  wholeof known creation had finally gone bananas.Zaphod grinned and gave the boat an extra kick of speed.Zaphod Beeblebrox,  adventurer,  ex-hippy,  good  timer,  (crook?quite  possibly),  manic self-publicist, terribly bad at personalrelationships, often thought to be completely out to lunch.President?No one had gone bananas, not in that way at least.Only six people in the entire Galaxy understood the principle  onwhich  the  Galaxy  was  governed, and they knew that once ZaphodBeeblebrox had announced his intention to run as President it wasmore  or  less  a  fait  accompli:  he  was  the ideal Presidencyfodder*.What they completely failed to  understand  was  why  Zaphod  wasdoing it.He banked sharply, shooting a wild wall of water at the sun.Today was the day; today was the day when they would realize whatZaphod  had  been  up  to.  Today  was  what  Zaphod BeeblebroxsPresidency was all  about.  Today  was  also  his  two  hundredthbirthday, but that was just another meaningless coincidence.As he skipped his boat across the  seas  of  Damogran  he  smiledquietly  to  himself  about  what a wonderful exciting day it wasgoing to be. He relaxed and spread his two arms lazily across theseat back. He steered with an extra arm hed recently fitted justbeneath his right one to help improve his ski-boxing."Hey," he cooed to himself, "youre a real cool boy you." But hisnerves sang a song shriller than a dog whistle.The island of France was about  twenty  miles  long,  five  milesacross  the  middle, sandy and crescent shaped. In fact it seemedto exist not so much as an island in its own right  as  simply  ameans  of  defining  the  sweep  and  curve  of  a huge bay. Thisimpression was heightened by the fact that the inner coastline ofthe  crescent consisted almost entirely of steep cliffs. From thetop of the cliff the land sloped slowly down five  miles  to  theopposite shore.On top of the cliffs stood a reception committee.It consisted in large part of the engineers and  researchers  whohad built the Heart of Gold - mostly humanoid, but here and therewere a few reptiloid atomineers, two or  three  green  slyph-likemaximegalacticans,  an  octopoid  physucturalist  or  two  and  aHooloovoo (a Hooloovoo is a super-intelligent shade of the  colorblue).  All except the Hooloovoo were resplendent in their multi-colored ceremonial lab coats; the Hooloovoo had been  temporarilyrefracted into a free standing prism for the occasion.There was a mood of immense excitement thrilling through  all  ofthem.  Together  and between them they had gone to and beyond thefurthest limits of physical laws,  restructured  the  fundamentalfabric  of  matter,  strained,  twisted  and  broken  the laws ofpossibility and impossibility, but still the greatest  excitementof  all  seemed to be to meet a man with an orange sash round hisneck. (An orange sash  was  what  the  President  of  the  Galaxytraditionally  wore.) It might not even have made much differenceto them if theyd known exactly how much power the  President  ofthe  Galaxy actually wielded: none at all. Only six people in theGalaxy knew that the job of the Galactic  President  was  not  towield power but to attract attention away from it.Zaphod Beeblebrox was amazingly good at his job.The  crowd  gasped,  dazzled  by  sun  and  seemanship,  as   thePresidential speedboat zipped round the headland into the bay. Itflashed and shone as  it  came  skating  over  the  sea  in  wideskidding turns.In fact it didnt need to touch the water at all, because it  wassupported  on  a  hazy  cushion  of  ionized atoms - but just foreffect it was fitted with thin finblades which could  be  loweredinto  the  water.  They  slashed sheets of water hissing into theair, carved deep gashes into the sea  which  swayed  crazily  andsank  back foaming into the boats wake as it careered across thebay.Zaphod loved effect: it was what he was best at.He twisted the wheel sharply, the boat slewed  round  in  a  wildscything  skid beneath the cliff face and dropped to rest lightlyon the rocking waves.Within seconds he ran out onto the deck and waved and grinned  atover  three  billion  people.  The  three  billion people werentactually there, but they watched his every  gesture  through  theeyes  of a small robot tri-D camera which hovered obsequiously inthe air nearby. The antics of the President always made amazinglypopular tri-D; thats what they were for.He grinned again. Three billion and six people  didnt  know  it,but today would be a bigger antic than anyone had bargained for.The robot camera homed in for a close up on the more  popular  ofhis  two  heads  and  he  waved again. He was roughly humanoid inappearance except for the extra head  and  third  arm.  His  fairtousled  hair  stuck  out  in  random  directions,  his blue eyesglinted with something completely unidentifiable, and  his  chinswere almost always unshaven.A twenty-foot-high transparent globe floated next  to  his  boat,rolling  and  bobbing, glistening in the brilliant sun. Inside itfloated a wide semi-circular sofa  upholstered  in  glorious  redleather:  the more the globe bobbed and rolled, the more the sofastayed perfectly still, steady as an upholstered rock. Again, alldone for effect as much as anything.Zaphod stepped through the wall of the globe and relaxed  on  thesofa.  He  spread his two arms lazily along the back and with thethird brushed some dust off his knee.  His  heads  looked  about,smiling;  he put his feet up. At any moment, he thought, he mightscream.Water boiled up beneath the bubble, it seethed and  spouted.  Thebubble  surged  into  the  air,  bobbing and rolling on the waterspout. Up, up it climbed, throwing stilts of light at the  cliff.Up  it  surged  on  the  jet,  the water falling from beneath it,crashing back into the sea hundreds of feet below.Zaphod smiled, picturing himself.A thoroughly ridiculous  form  of  transport,  but  a  thoroughlybeautiful one.At the top of the cliff the globe wavered for a moment, tipped onto  a railed ramp, rolled down it to a small concave platform andriddled to a halt.To tremendous applause  Zaphod  Beeblebrox  stepped  out  of  thebubble, his orange sash blazing in the light.The President of the Galaxy had arrived.He waited for the applause to die down, then raised his hands  ingreeting."Hi," he said.A government spider sidled up to him and  attempted  to  press  acopy  of his prepared speech into his hands. Pages three to sevenof the original version were at the moment  floating  soggily  onthe  Damogran sea some five miles out from the bay. Pages one andtwo had been salvaged by a Damogran Frond Crested Eagle  and  hadalready  become  incorporated  into  an extraordinary new form ofnest which the eagle had invented. It was constructed largely  ofpapier  m@ch@ and it was virtually impossible for a newly hatchedbaby eagle to break out of it. The Damogran Frond  Crested  Eaglehad  heard of the notion of survival of the species but wanted notruck with it.Zaphod Beeblebrox would not be needing  his  set  speech  and  hegently deflected the one being offered him by the spider."Hi," he said again.Everyone beamed at him, or, at least, nearly everyone. He singledout  Trillian from the crowd. Trillian was a gird that Zaphod hadpicked up recently  whilst  visiting  a  planet,  just  for  fun,incognito.  She  was  slim, darkish, humanoid, with long waves ofblack hair, a full mouth,  an  odd  little  nob  of  a  nose  andridiculously  brown eyes. With her red head scarf knotted in thatparticular way and her long flowing silky brown dress she  lookedvaguely  Arabic.  Not that anyone there had ever heard of an Arabof course. The Arabs had very recently ceased to exist, and  evenwhen they had existed they were five hundred thousand light yearsfrom Damogran. Trillian  wasnt  anybody  in  particular,  or  soZaphod  claimed.  She  just went around with him rather a lot andtold him what she thought of him."Hi honey," he said to her.She flashed him a quick tight smile and  looked  away.  Then  shelooked  back  for  a  moment and smiled more warmly - but by thistime he was looking at something else."Hi," he said to a small knot of creatures  from  the  press  whowere standing nearby wishing that he would stop saying Hi and geton with the quotes. He grinned at them  particularly  because  heknew  that in a few moments he would be giving them one hell of aquote.The next thing he said though was not a lot of use to  them.  Oneof  the  officials  of  the  party had irritably decided that thePresident was clearly not in  a  mood  to  read  the  deliciouslyturned  speech that had been written for him, and had flipped theswitch on the remote control device in his pocket. Away in  frontof  them  a  huge  white dome that bulged against the sky crackeddown in the middle, split, and slowly folded itself down into theground. Everyone gasped although they had known perfectly well itwas going to do that because they had built it that way.Beneath it lay uncovered a huge starship, one hundred  and  fiftymetres  long,  shaped  like a sleek running shoe, perfectly whiteand mindboggingly beautiful. At the heart of it,  unseen,  lay  asmall  gold  box which carried within it the most brain-wretchingdevice ever conceived, a device which made this  starship  uniquein  the  history of the galaxy, a device after which the ship hadbeen named - The Heart of Gold."Wow", said Zaphod Beeblebrox to the Heart of Gold. There  wasntmuch else he could say.He said it again because he knew it would annoy the press."Wow."The crowd turned their faces back  towards  him  expectantly.  Hewinked  at  Trillian who raised her eyebrows and widened her eyesat him. She knew what he was about  to  say  and  thought  him  aterrible showoff."That is really amazing," he said. "That really is truly amazing.That is so amazingly amazing I think Id like to steal it."A marvellous Presidential quote, absolutely  true  to  form.  Thecrowd  laughed  appreciatively,  the  newsmen  gleefully  punchedbuttons on their Sub-Etha News-Matics and the President grinned.As he grinned his heart screamed unbearably and he  fingered  thesmall Paralyso-Matic bomb that nestled quietly in his pocket.Finally he could bear it no more. He lifted his heads up  to  thesky,  let out a wild whoop in major thirds, threw the bomb to theground and ran forward through the sea of suddenly frozen smiles.Prostetnic Vogon Jeltz was not a pleasant sight, even  for  otherVogons.  His  highly  domed  nose  rose  high above a small piggyforehead. His dark green rubbery skin was thick enough for him toplay  the game of Vogon Civil Service politics, and play it well,and waterproof enough for him  to  survive  indefinitely  at  seadepths of up to a thousand feet with no ill effects.Not that he ever went swimming of course. His busy schedule wouldnot allow it. He was the way he was because billions of years agowhen the Vogons had first crawled out of  the  sluggish  primevalseas  of  Vogsphere,  and  had  lain  panting  and heaving on theplanets virgin shores... when the first rays of the bright youngVogsol  sun  had shone across them that morning, it was as if theforces of evolution ad simply given up on them  there  and  then,had  turned  aside in disgust and written them off as an ugly andunfortunate mistake. They never evolved again; they should  neverhave survived.The fact that they did is some kind  of  tribute  to  the  thick-willed  slug-brained  stubbornness of these creatures. Evolution?they said to themselves, Who needs it?, and what  nature  refusedto  do  for  them they simply did without until such time as theywere able to rectify the grosser anatomical  inconveniences  withsurgery.Meanwhile, the natural forces on the planet  Vogsphere  had  beenworking  overtime  to  make  up  for  their earlier blunder. Theybrought forth scintillating jewelled scuttling crabs,  which  theVogons  ate,  smashing  their  shells  with  iron  mallets;  tallaspiring trees with breathtaking slenderness and colour which theVogons  cut  down and burned the crab meat with; elegant gazelle-like creatures with silken coats and dewy eyes which  the  Vogonswould  catch  and  sit  on. They were no use as transport becausetheir backs would snap instantly, but  the  Vogons  sat  on  themanyway.Thus the planet Vogsphere whiled away the unhappy millennia untilthe  Vogons  suddenly  discovered  the principles of interstellartravel. Within a  few  short  Vog  years  every  last  Vogon  hadmigrated  to  the  Megabrantis  cluster, the political hub of theGalaxy and now formed the  immensely  powerful  backbone  of  theGalactic  Civil Service. They have attempted to acquire learning,they have attempted to acquire style and  social  grace,  but  inmost  respects  the  modern  Vogon  is  little different from hisprimitive forebears. Every year they import twenty-seven thousandscintillating  jewelled  scuttling crabs from their native planetand while away a happy drunken night smashing them to  bits  withiron mallets.Prostetnic Vogon Jeltz was a fairly typical Vogon in that he  wasthoroughly vile. Also, he did not like hitch hikers.Somewhere in a small dark cabin buried deep in the intestines  ofProstetnic   Vogon   Jeltzs   flagship,  a  small  match  flarednervously. The owner of the match was not a Vogon,  but  he  knewall  about  them  and  was right to be nervous. His name was FordPrefect*.He looked about the cabin but  could  see  very  little;  strangemonstrous  shadows  loomed  and  leaped  with the tiny flickeringflame, but all was quiet. He breathed a silent thank you  to  theDentrassis.  The  Dentrassis  are an unruly tribe of gourmands, awild but pleasant bunch whom the Vogons  had  recently  taken  toemploying  as  catering  staff  on their long haul fleets, on thestrict understanding that  they  keep  themselves  very  much  tothemselves.This suited the Dentrassis fine, because they loved Vogon  money,which  is one of the hardest currencies in space, but loathed theVogons themselves. The only sort of Vogon a  Dentrassi  liked  tosee was an annoyed Vogon.It was because of  this  tiny  piece  of  information  that  FordPrefect  was  not  now  a  whiff  of  hydrogen,  ozone and carbonmonoxide.He heard a slight groan. By the light of the match he saw a heavyshape  moving  slightly  on the floor. Quickly he shook the matchout, reached in his pocket, found what he  was  looking  for  andtook it out. He crouched on the floor. The shape moved again.Ford Prefect said: "I bought some peanuts."Arthur Dent moved, and groaned again, muttering incoherently."Here, have some," urged Ford,  shaking  the  packet  again,  "ifyouve  never  been  through  a  matter  transference beam beforeyouve probably lost some salt and  protein.  The  beer  you  hadshould have cushioned your system a bit.""Whhhrrrr..." said Arthur Dent. He opened his eyes."Its dark," he said."Yes," said Ford Prefect, "its dark.""No light," said Arthur Dent. "Dark, no light."One of the things  Ford  Prefect  had  always  found  hardest  tounderstand  about  human  beings  was  their habit of continuallystating and repeating the obvious, as in  Its  a  nice  day,  orYoure  very  tall,  or  Oh  dear  you seem to have fallen down athirty-foot well, are you alright? At first  Ford  had  formed  atheory  to  account  for  this strange behaviour. If human beingsdont keep  exercising  their  lips,  he  thought,  their  mouthsprobably   seize  up.  After  a  few  months  consideration  andobservation he abandoned this theory in favour of a new  one.  Ifthey  dont  keep  on  exercising  their  lips, he thought, theirbrains start working. After a while he abandoned this one as wellas  being  obstructively cynical and decided he quite liked humanbeings after all, but  he  always  remained  desperately  worriedabout the terrible number of things they didnt know about."Yes," he agreed with Arthur, "no light."  He  helped  Arthur  tosome peanuts. "How do you feel?" he asked."Like a military academy," said  Arthur,  "bits  of  me  keep  onpassing out."Ford stared at him blankly in the darkness."If I asked you where the hell  we  were,"  said  Arthur  weakly,"would I regret it?"Ford stood up. "Were safe," he said."Oh good," said Arthur."Were in a small galley  cabin,"  said  Ford,  "in  one  of  thespaceships of the Vogon Constructor Fleet.""Ah," said Arthur, "this is obviously some strange usage  of  theword safe that I wasnt previously aware of."Ford struck another match to help him search for a light  switch.Monstrous  shadows  leaped  and loomed again. Arthur struggled tohis feet and hugged himself apprehensively. Hideous alien  shapesseemed  to  throng about him, the air was thick with musty smellswhich sidled into his lungs without identifying themselves, and alow irritating hum kept his brain from focusing."How did we get here?" he asked, shivering slightly."We hitched a lift," said Ford."Excuse me?" said Arthur. "Are you trying to tell me that we juststuck  out  our  thumbs and some green bug-eyed monster stuck hishead out and said, Hi fellas, hop right in. I can take you as faras the Basingstoke roundabout?""Well," said Ford, "the Thumbs an electronic sub-etha signallingdevice,  the roundabouts at Barnards Star six light years away,but otherwise, thats more or less right.""And the bug-eyed monster?""Is green, yes.""Fine," said Arthur, "when can I get home?""You cant," said Ford Prefect, and found the light switch."Shade your eyes ..." he said, and turned it on.Even Ford was surprised."Good grief," said Arthur, "is this  really  the  interior  of  aflying saucer?"Prostetnic Vogon Jeltz heaved his unpleasant green body round thecontrol   bridge.   He   always   felt  vaguely  irritable  afterdemolishing populated planets. He wished that someone would  comeand tell him that it was all wrong so that he could shout at themand feel better. He flopped as heavily as  he  could  on  to  hiscontrol  seat  in  the  hope  that  it  would  break and give himsomething to be  genuinely  angry  about,  but  it  only  gave  acomplaining sort of creak."Go away!" he shouted at a young  Vogon  guard  who  entered  thebridge  at  that  moment. The guard vanished immediately, feelingrather relieved. He was glad it wouldnt now be him who deliveredthe  report  theyd  just  received.  The  report was an officialrelease which said that a wonderful new form of  spaceship  drivewas  at  this moment being unveiled at a government research baseon Damogran which would henceforth make all hyperspatial  expressroutes unnecessary.Another door slid open, but this time the  Vogon  captain  didntshout  because it was the door from the galley quarters where theDentrassis prepared his meals. A meal would be most welcome.A huge furry creature bounded through the  door  with  his  lunchtray. It was grinning like a maniac.Prostetnic Vogon  Jeltz  was  delighted.  He  knew  that  when  aDentrassi  looked  that  pleased  with itself there was somethinggoing on somewhere on the ship  that  he  could  get  very  angryindeed about.Ford and Arthur stared about them."Well, what do you think?" said Ford."Its a bit squalid, isnt it?"Ford  frowned  at  the  grubby  mattress,   unwashed   cups   andunidentifiable bits of smelly alien underwear that lay around thecramped cabin."Well, this is a working ship, you see," said  Ford.  "These  arethe Dentrassi sleeping quarters.""I thought you said they were called Vogons or something.""Yes," said Ford, "the Vogons run the ship,  the  Dentrassis  arethe cooks, they let us on board.""Im confused," said Arthur."Here, have a look at this," said Ford. He sat down on one of themattresses  and rummaged about in his satchel. Arthur prodded themattress nervously and then sat on it himself:  in  fact  he  hadvery  little to be nervous about, because all mattresses grown inthe swamps of Squornshellous Zeta are very thoroughly killed  anddried  before  being  put  to service. Very few have ever come tolife again.Ford handed the book to Arthur."What is it?" asked Arthur."The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy. Its a sort of  electronicbook.  It  tells  you everything you need to know about anything.Thats its job."Arthur turned it over nervously in his hands."I like the cover," he said. "Dont Panic. Its the first helpfulor intelligible thing anybodys said to me all day.""Ill show you how it works," said  Ford.  He  snatched  it  fromArthur who was still holding it as if it was a two-week-dead larkand pulled it out of its cover."You press this button here you see  and  the  screen  lights  upgiving you the index."A screen, about three inches by four, lit up and characters beganto flicker across the surface."You want to know about Vogons, so I enter  that  name  so."  Hisfingers tapped some more keys. "And there we are."The words Vogon Constructor Fleets flared  in  green  across  thescreen.Ford pressed a large red button at the bottom of the  screen  andwords  began  to  undulate  across it. At the same time, the bookbegan to speak the entry as well in a still quiet measured voice.This is what the book said."Vogon Constructor Fleets. Here is what to do if you want to  geta  lift  from  a  Vogon:  forget  it.  They  are  one of the mostunpleasant races in the Galaxy --  not  actually  evil,  but  badtempered, bureaucratic, officious and callous. They wouldnt evenlift a finger to save their own grandmothers  from  the  RavenousBugblatter  Beast  of  Traal without orders signed in triplicate,sent in, sent back, queried, lost,  found,  subjected  to  publicinquiry, lost again, and finally buried in soft peat and recycledas firelighters."The best way to get a drink out of a  Vogon  is  to  stick  yourfinger  down  his  throat, and the best way to irritate him is tofeed his grandmother to the Ravenous Bugblatter Beast of Traal."On no account allow a Vogon to read poetry at you."Arthur blinked at it."What a strange book. How did we get a lift then?""Thats the point, its out of date now," said Ford, sliding  thebook  back  into its cover. "Im doing the field research for theNew Revised Edition, and one of the things Ill have  to  includeis  a  bit  about how the Vogons now employ Dentrassi cooks whichgives us a rather useful little loophole."A pained expression crossed  Arthurs  face.  "But  who  are  theDentrassi?" he said."Great guys," said Ford. "Theyre the best  cooks  and  the  bestdrink  mixers and they dont give a wet slap about anything else.And theyll always help hitch hikers aboard, partly because  theylike  the company, but mostly because it annoys the Vogons. Whichis exactly the sort of thing  you  need  to  know  if  youre  animpoverished  hitch  hiker  trying  to  see  the  marvels  of theUniverse for less than thirty Altairan Dollars a day. And  thatsmy job. Fun, isnt it?"Arthur looked lost."Its  amazing,"  he  said  and  frowned  at  one  of  the  othermattresses."Unfortunately I got stuck on the Earth for rather longer than  Iintended,"  said  Ford.  "I  came  for  a  week and got stuck forfifteen years.""But how did you get there in the first place then?""Easy, I got a lift with a teaser.""A teaser?""Yeah.""Er, what is ...""A teaser? Teasers are usually rich kids with nothing to do. Theycruise around looking for planets which havent made interstellarcontact yet and buzz them.""Buzz them?" Arthur began to feel that Ford was  enjoying  makinglife difficult for him."Yeah", said Ford, "they buzz them. They find some isolated  spotwith  very  few  people around, then land right by some poor soulwhom no ones ever going to believe and then strut up and down infront  of  him  wearing  silly antennae on their heads and makingbeep beep noises. Rather childish really." Ford leant back on themattress  with his hands behind his head and looked infuriatinglypleased with himself."Ford," insisted Arthur, "I dont know  if  this  sounds  like  asilly question, but what am I doing here?""Well you know that," said Ford. "I rescued you from the Earth.""And whats happened to the Earth?""Ah. Its been demolished.""Has it," said Arthur levelly."Yes. It just boiled away into space.""Look," said Arthur, "Im a bit upset about that."Ford frowned to himself and seemed to roll the thought around hismind."Yes, I can understand that," he said at last."Understand that!" shouted Arthur. "Understand that!"Ford sprang up."Keep looking at the book!" he hissed urgently."What?""Dont Panic.""Im not panicking!""Yes you are.""Alright so Im panicking, what else is there to do?""You just come along with me and have a good time. The Galaxys afun place. Youll need to have this fish in your ear.""I beg your pardon?" asked Arthur, rather politely he thought.Ford was holding up a small glass jar which quite clearly  had  asmall  yellow fish wriggling around in it. Arthur blinked at him.He wished there was something simple and  recognizable  he  couldgrasp hold of. He would have felt safe if alongside the Dentrassiunderwear, the piles of Squornshellous  mattresses  and  the  manfrom  Betelgeuse  holding  up a small yellow fish and offering toput it in his ear he had been able to see just a small packet  ofcorn flakes. He couldnt, and he didnt feel safe.Suddenly a violent noise leapt at them from  no  source  that  hecould  identify.  He  gasped in terror at what sounded like a mantrying to gargle whilst fighting off a pack of wolves."Shush!" said Ford. "Listen, it might be important.""Im ... important?""Its the Vogon captain making an announcement on the Tannoy.""You mean thats how the Vogons talk?""Listen!""But I cant speak Vogon!""You dont need to. Just put that fish in your ear."Ford, with a lightning movement, clapped  his  hand  to  Arthursear,  and  he  had  the  sudden  sickening  sensation of the fishslithering deep into his aural  tract.  Gasping  with  horror  hescrabbled  at  his ear for a second or so, but then slowly turnedgoggle-eyed with wonder. He was experiencing the aural equivalentof  looking  at  a  picture  of  two  black silhouetted faces andsuddenly seeing it as a picture of a  white  candlestick.  Or  oflooking  at  a  lot  of  coloured  dots on a piece of paper whichsuddenly resolve themselves into the figure  six  and  mean  thatyour  optician  is  going  to charge you a lot of money for a newpair of glasses.He was still listening to the howling gargles, he knew that, onlynow  it  had  taken on the semblance of perfectly straightforwardEnglish.This is what he heard ..."Howl howl gargle howl gargle howl howl howl gargle  howl  garglehowl  howl  gargle  gargle  howl gargle gargle gargle howl slurrpuuuurgh should have a good time. Message repeats.  This  is  yourcaptain   speaking,   so  stop  whatever  youre  doing  and  payattention. First of all I see from our instruments that we have acouple of hitchhikers aboard. Hello wherever you are. I just wantto make it totally clear that you  are  not  at  all  welcome.  Iworked  hard to get where I am today, and I didnt become captainof a Vogon constructor ship simply so I could turn it into a taxiservice  for  a load of degenerate freeloaders. I have sent out asearch party, and as soon that they find you I will put  you  offthe ship. If youre very lucky I might read you some of my poetryfirst."Secondly, we are about to jump into hyperspace for  the  journeyto  Barnards  Star.  On  arrival  we  will  stay  in  dock for aseventy-two hour refit, and no ones to  leave  the  ship  duringthat time. I repeat, all planet leave is cancelled. Ive just hadan unhappy love affair, so I dont see why  anybody  else  shouldhave a good time. Message ends."The noise stopped.Arthur discovered to his embarrassment that he was  lying  curledup  in  a small ball on the floor with his arms wrapped round hishead. He smiled weakly."Charming man," he said. "I wish I had  a  daughter  so  I  couldforbid her to marry one ...""You wouldnt need to," said  Ford.  "Theyve  got  as  much  sexappeal  as  a  road accident. No, dont move," he added as Arthurbegan to uncurl himself, "youd better be prepared for  the  jumpinto hyperspace. Its unpleasantly like being drunk.""Whats so unpleasant about being drunk?""You ask a glass of water."Arthur thought about this."Ford," he said."Yeah?""Whats this fish doing in my ear?""Its translating for you. Its a Babel fish. Look it up  in  thebook if you like."He tossed over The Hitch Hikers Guide to  the  Galaxy  and  thencurled  himself  up into a foetal ball to prepare himself for thejump.At that moment the bottom fell out of Arthurs mind.His eyes turned inside out. His feet began to leak out of the topof his head.The room folded flat about  him,  spun  around,  shifted  out  ofexistence and left him sliding into his own navel.They were passing through hyperspace."The Babel fish," said The Hitch  Hikers  Guide  to  the  Galaxyquietly,  "is  small,  yellow  and  leech-like,  and probably theoddest thing in the Universe. It feeds on  brainwave  energy  notfrom  its  carrier  but  from  those  around  it.  It absorbs allunconscious mental frequencies  from  this  brainwave  energy  tonourish  itself  with.  It  then  excretes  into  the mind of itscarrier a telepathic matrix formed  by  combining  the  consciousthought  frequencies with nerve signals picked up from the speechcentres of the brain  which  has  supplied  them.  The  practicalupshot  of all this is that if you stick a Babel fish in your earyou can instantly understand anything said to you in any form  oflanguage.  The  speech  patterns  you  actually  hear  decode thebrainwave matrix which has been fed into your mind by your  Babelfish."Now it is such a bizarrely improbable coincidence that  anythingso  mind-bog-gin-gly useful could have evolved purely by chance thatsome thin-kers have chosen to see it as the  final  and  clinchingproof of the non-existence of God."The argument goes something like this: I refuse to prove that Iexist, says God, for proof denies faith, and without faith I amnothing."But, says Man, The Babel fish is a dead giveaway,  isnt  it?It  could not have evolved by chance. It proves you exist, and sotherefore, by your own arguments, you dont. QED."Oh dear, says God, I hadnt thought of  that,  and  promptlyvanished in a puff of logic."Oh, that was easy, says Man, and for  an  encore  goes  on  toprove  that  black  is  white and gets himself killed on the nextzebra crossing."Most leading theologians claim that this argument is a  load  ofdingos  kidneys,  but  that didnt stop Oolon Colluphid making asmall fortune when he used it as the central theme of  his  best-selling book Well That About Wraps It Up For God."Meanwhile, the poor Babel  fish,  by  effectively  removing  allbarriers  to  communication between different races and cultures,has caused more and bloddier  wars  than  anything  else  in  thehistory of creation."Arthur let out a low groan. He was horrified to discover that thekick  through  hyperspace hadnt killed him. He was now six lightyears from the place that the Earth would have been if  it  stillexisted.The Earth.Visions of it swam sickeningly through his nauseated mind.  Therewas  no  way  his  imagination could feel the impact of the wholeEarth having gone, it was too big. He  prodded  his  feelings  bythinking  that  his parents and his sister had gone. No reaction.He thought of all the people he had been close to.  No  reaction.Then  he  thought  of  a  complete  stranger he had been standingbehind in the queue at the supermarket before and felt  a  suddenstab  -  the  supermarket  was  gone,  everything in it was gone.Nelsons Column had gone! Nelsons  Column  had  gone  and  therewould  be  no  outcry,  because  there was no one left to make anoutcry. From now on Nelsons Column only  existed  in  his  mind.England  only  existed in his mind - his mind, stuck here in thisdank smelly  steel-lined  spaceship.  A  wave  of  claustrophobiaclosed in on him.England no longer existed. Hed got that - somehow hed  got  it.He  tried again. America, he thought, has gone. He couldnt graspit. He decided to start smaller again.  New  York  has  gone.  Noreaction.  Hed  never  seriously believed it existed anyway. Thedollar, he thought, had sunk for ever. Slight tremor there. EveryBogart  movie  has  been wiped, he said to himself, and that gavehim a nasty knock. McDonalds, he thought. There is no longer  anysuch thing as a McDonalds hamburger.He passed out. When he came round a second later he found he  wassobbing for his mother.He jerked himself violently to his feet."Ford!"Ford looked up from where he was sitting in a corner  humming  tohimself. He always found the actual travelling-through-space partof space travel rather trying."Yeah?" he said."If youre a researcher on this book thing and you were on Earth,you must have been gathering material on it.""Well, I was able to extend the original entry a bit, yes.""Let me see what it says in this edition then, Ive  got  to  seeit.""Yeah OK." He passed it over again.Arthur grabbed hold of it and tried to stop his hands shaking. Hepressed  the  entry for the relevant page. The screen flashed andswirled and resolved into a page of print. Arthur stared at it."It doesnt have an entry!" he burst out.Ford looked over his shoulder."Yes it does," he said, "down there, see at  the  bottom  of  thescreen,  just  under  Eccentrica  Gallumbits, the triple-breastedwhore of Eroticon ."Arthur followed Fords finger, and saw where it was pointing. Fora moment it still didnt register, then his mind nearly blew up."What? Harmless? Is that all  its  got  to  say?  Harmless!  Oneword!"Ford shrugged."Well, there are a hundred billion stars in the Galaxy, and  onlya  limited  amount  of  space  in the books microprocessors," hesaid, "and no one knew much about the Earth of course.""Well for Gods sake I hope you managed to rectify that a bit.""Oh yes, well I managed to  transmit  a  new  entry  off  to  theeditor. He had to trim it a bit, but its still an improvement.""And what does it say now?" asked Arthur."Mostly harmless," admitted  Ford  with  a  slightly  embarrassedcough."Mostly harmless!" shouted Arthur."What was that noise?" hissed Ford."It was me shouting," shouted Arthur."No! Shut up!" said Ford. I think were in trouble.""You think were in trouble!"Outside the door were the sounds of marching feet."The Dentrassi?" whispered Arthur."No, those are steel tipped boots," said Ford.There was a sharp ringing rap on the door."Then who is it?" said Arthur."Well," said Ford, "if were lucky its just the Vogons  come  tothrow us in to space.""And if were unlucky?""If were unlucky," said  Ford  grimly,  "the  captain  might  beserious  in  his  threat  that  hes going to read us some of hispoetry first ..."Vogon poetry is of course the third worst in the Universe.The second worst is that  of  the  Azagoths  of  Kria.  During  arecitation  by  their  Poet  Master Grunthos the Flatulent of hispoem "Ode To A Small Lump of Green Putty I Found In My Armpit OneMidsummer   Morning"  four  of  his  audience  died  of  internalhaemorrhaging,  and  the  President  of  the  Mid-Galactic   ArtsNobbling  Council  survived  by  gnawing one of his own legs off.Grunthos is reported to have been "disappointed"  by  the  poemsreception,  and  was  about to embark on a reading of his twelve-book epic entitled My Favourite Bathtime  Gurgles  when  his  ownmajor  intestine,  in  a  desperate  attempt  to  save  life  andcivilization, leapt straight up through his  neck  and  throttledhis brain.The very worst poetry of all  perished  along  with  its  creatorPaula  Nancy Millstone Jennings of Greenbridge, Essex, England inthe destruction of the planet Earth.Prostetnic Vogon Jeltz smiled very slowly. This was done  not  somuch for effect as because he was trying to remember the sequenceof muscle movements. He had had a terribly  therapeutic  yell  athis  prisoners  and was now feeling quite relaxed and ready for alittle callousness.The prisoners sat in Poetry Appreciation  Chairs  --strapped  in.Vogons  suffered  no  illusions as to the regard their works weregenerally held in. Their early attempts at composition  had  beenpart  of  bludgeoning  insistence  that  they  be  accepted  as aproperly evolved and cultured race, but now the only  thing  thatkept them going was sheer bloodymindedness.The sweat stood out cold on Ford Prefects brow, and  slid  roundthe  electrodes strapped to his temples. These were attached to abattery of electronic equipment - imagery intensifiers,  rhythmicmodulators,  alliterative  residulators  and simile dumpers - alldesigned to heighten the experience of the  poem  and  make  surethat not a single nuance of the poets thought was lost.Arthur Dent sat and quivered. He had no idea what he was in  for,but  he  knew  that he hadnt liked anything that had happened sofar and didnt think things were likely to change.The Vogon began to read - a  fetid  little  passage  of  his  owndevising."Oh frettled gruntbuggly ..." he  began.  Spasms  wracked  Fordsbody - this was worse than ever hed been prepared for."... thy micturations are to me  As plurdled gabbleblotchits  ona lurgid bee.""Aaaaaaarggggghhhhhh!" went Ford Prefect, wrenching his head backas  lumps  of  pain thumped through it. He could dimly see besidehim Arthur lolling and rolling  in  his  seat.  He  clenched  histeeth."Groop I  implore  thee,"  continued  the  merciless  Vogon,  "myfoonting turlingdromes."His  voice  was  rising  to  a  horrible  pitch  of   impassionedstridency.    "And    hooptiously   drangle   me   with   crinklybindlewurdles, Or I will rend thee in the  gobberwarts  with  myblurglecruncheon, see if I dont!""Nnnnnnnnnnyyyyyyyuuuuuuurrrrrrrggggggghhhhh!" cried Ford Prefectand  threw  one  final spasm as the electronic enhancement of thelast line caught him full blast across the temples. He went limp.Arthur lolled."Now Earthlings ..." whirred the Vogon (he didnt know that  FordPrefect  was  in  fact  from  a  small  planet in the vicinity ofBetelgeuse, and wouldnt have cared if he  had)  "I  present  youwith  a simple choice! Either die in the vacuum of space, or ..."he paused for melodramatic effect, "tell me how good you  thoughtmy poem was!"He threw himself backwards into a huge leathery  bat-shaped  seatand watched them. He did the smile again.Ford was rasping for breath. He rolled his dusty tongue round hisparched mouth and moaned.Arthur said brightly: "Actually I quite liked it."Ford turned and gaped. Here was an approach that had quite simplynot occurred to him.The Vogon raised a surprised eyebrow  that  effectively  obscuredhis nose and was therefore no bad thing."Oh good ..." he whirred, in considerable astonishment."Oh yes," said Arthur, "I thought that some of  the  metaphysicalimagery was really particularly effective."Ford continued to stare at him, slowly  organizing  his  thoughtsaround  this  totally  new  concept. Were they really going to beable to bareface their way out of this?"Yes, do continue ..." invited the Vogon."Oh ... and er ... interesting rhythmic devices  too,"  continuedArthur,  "which  seemed to counterpoint the ... er ... er ..." Hefloundered.Ford leaped to his rescue, hazarding "counterpoint the surrealismof  the underlying metaphor of the ... er ..." He floundered too,but Arthur was ready again."... humanity of the ...""Vogonity," Ford hissed at him."Ah yes, Vogonity (sorry)  of  the  poets  compassionate  soul,"Arthur  felt  he  was  on  a  home  stretch now, "which contrivesthrough the medium of the  verse  structure  to  sublimate  this,transcend   that,   and   come  to  terms  with  the  fundamentaldichotomies  of  the  other,"  (he  was  reaching  a   triumphantcrescendo ...) "and one is left with a profound and vivid insightinto ... into ... er ..." (... which suddenly gave out  on  him.)Ford leaped in with the coup de gr@ce:"Into whatever it was the poem was about!" he yelled. Out of  thecorner of his mouth: "Well done, Arthur, that was very good."The Vogon perused them. For a moment his embittered  racial  soulhad  been  touched,  but he thought no - too little too late. Hisvoice took on the quality of a cat snagging brushed nylon."So what youre saying is that I write poetry because  underneathmy  mean  callous  heartless  exterior  I  really just want to beloved," he said. He paused. "Is that right?"Ford laughed a nervous laugh. "Well I mean yes," he said,  "dontwe all, deep down, you know ... er ..."The Vogon stood up."No, well youre completely wrong," he said, "I just write poetryto  throw  my  mean callous heartless exterior into sharp relief.Im going to throw you off  the  ship  anyway.  Guard!  Take  theprisoners to number three airlock and throw them out!""What?" shouted Ford.A huge young Vogon guard stepped forward and yanked them  out  oftheir straps with his huge blubbery arms."You cant throw us into space," yelled Ford,  "were  trying  towrite a book.""Resistance is useless!" shouted the Vogon guard back at him.  Itwas  the  first phrase hed learnt when he joined the Vogon GuardCorps.The captain watched with detached amusement and then turned away.Arthur stared round him wildly."I dont want to die now!" he yelled. "Ive still got a headache!I  dont  want  to go to heaven with a headache, Id be all crossand wouldnt enjoy it!"The guard grasped them both firmly round  the  neck,  and  bowingdeferentially  towards  his  captains  back,  hoiked  them  bothprotesting out of the bridge. A steel door closed and the captainwas  on  his  own  again. He hummed quietly and mused to himself,lightly fingering his notebook of verses."Hmmmm," he said, "counterpoint the surrealism of the  underlyingmetaphor  ..."  He  considered this for a moment, and then closedthe book with a grim smile."Deaths too good for them," he said.The long steel-lined corridor echoed to the feeble  struggles  ofthe two humanoids clamped firmly under rubbery Vogon armpits."This is great," spluttered Arthur, "this is really terrific. Letgo of me you brute!"The Vogon guard dragged them on."Dont you worry," said  Ford,  "Ill  think  of  something."  Hedidnt sound hopeful."Resistance is useless!" bellowed the guard."Just dont say things  like  that,"  stammered  Ford.  "How  cananyone  maintain  a  positive  mental  attitude  if youre sayingthings like that?""My God," complained Arthur, "youre  talking  about  a  positivemental  attitude  and you havent even had your planet demolishedtoday. I woke up this morning and thought Id have a nice relaxedday,  do  a bit of reading, brush the dog ... Its now just afterfour in the afternoon and Im already  thrown  out  of  an  alienspaceship six light years from the smoking remains of the Earth!"He spluttered and gurgled as the Vogon tightened his grip."Alright," said Ford, "just stop panicking.""Who said anything about panicking?"  snapped  Arthur.  "This  isstill  just  the  culture  shock. You wait till Ive settled downinto the  situation  and  found  my  bearings.  Then  Ill  startpanicking.""Arthur  youre  getting  hysterical.  Shut   up!"   Ford   trieddesperately  to  think, but was interrupted by the guard shoutingagain."Resistance is useless!""And you can shut up as well!" snapped Ford."Resistance is useless!""Oh give it a rest," said Ford. He twisted his head till  he  waslooking straight up into his captors face. A thought struck him."Do you really enjoy this sort of thing?" he asked suddenly.The Vogon stopped dead and a look  of  immense  stupidity  seepedslowly over his face."Enjoy?" he boomed. "What do you mean?""What I mean," said Ford, "is does it give you a full  satisfyinglife? Stomping around, sho     (  )        .           ,    .             ;               ,  ,       ,      ,   ,             ,   .              .* * *  [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] []* * *.      ..  [][],       ,      ,       .   , ,        .      []:    [].,   ,    ,   : , ! ,  !         [].   ,      ,     . ,   ,        ,     .  ,   ,    ,      ,   ,    ,    , ,     .          .  !    .   :  ,   ,   ,   ,   .  , . ,  . .  , ,   .  .    ,  ,     ,  .    -   . .       . , ,    .    .   !          ,      .          [],  .       .    ,    .     ,    .    ,    , .  ,    ,    , ,  ,       ,  ,         ,    .     :       ,  .    - ,  ? -   ,   .      . ,       ?       :  - ?  .     . , ,    . ,  ?       ?       .  , ?     .    .  ,    .    !         . ,  ,  .  , ,   -   .      . ,     : ,  .    .     -  ,   .     ?   ,   .       ?  ,        .    ,  - ,    ,    .   [].  ,  ,  .    ,  .  , ,  ,   .    ,       . !     .  ,         :    ,   .       ,   ,    .     .   ,  ,  :  .      : -.   , ?          .   ,   , . !    .       :   ! - .  .   .[],  , .    .      . !  ![]     [].    .     . ,         ,    .   ,    .             .   ,    [],   .          . -  ,    .  , ,       ,    ,    .    []   .     ,        [],       . , -   []      .     .   !    .  ,   .    ,   .,     ,   ,         . ,      ,   .  , ,     ,             ,  ,        ,    .      ,         .      - .          ,              .    . , -!     .          .    ,    ?   ,   .      .    ,    .   ,  . ,      .     , ,   .      . ,  , .    ,   . ,   .    ,     [].     ,        .    .    ,        .          .         -  [].  ,        ,    ,  ,   ...        .    .   ,      ,    .   ,     .        . , -  , -!   .      ,   .  .       [].     ?    -?    .       ,    .      .      .     .  - [].  ,    -   .  [],      ,   .  ,      !    ,    :    .   [].              ,    ,   .    , , ?    .   ,     ,    .  .    ,    .   .   !            .      ,    .      ,   ,  ,    . , ,       ,    -    .   . .  [].   ,      .  - ,    .       ? -    ? - ?    ,   ,       ,    .       . :     ,    , , ! ,     !  !   ,    ,     , , ,   ,         .   ,  .  ,   !    ,  []!        .    ,    ,      ,     .    .[] ,  ,   .  -  ,   .     ?    .   . -    .      ? ,  ,     -   ,    .    .  ,    ?   . ,    ?    .     . ,      .      ,           .,   , :  ,            ? ,  , : ? ? ,   .      [].   ?   ,  ?   ,   ,        .         -  .  ,   . ?     .     ?    .   ,    ,   ,  ,    [].          .   ?   .    ?   ?     .  , -, ,   ,   ,  , , , ?   ,    .     ,       ,   ,        .    ,  .     .            ,       .  ?  ,       [],    .  ,      .      .      []      .    , -  .       ,     ,    ,     . ! ,    .         .    . ,   ,     ,    :    ,     .    ?    .   ,   .     . ,  !   .      .    ,         .      .    ,  ,   ,     .   ,  : ,  , ?  ,    .     :   .     ? -  , ,   .      .      ,   .    -   .       .  . ,    , ,    :        ,     ,  .[]            , ,   .           .    .  . ,   ,   .      .    ,       .      ,   [].  .   ,   ,    .     :    . ,    ,     .      .   , :    .  ?     :    ,    ,  ,    .    ,         .             ,   : ,     . ,  ,  .     .   [],     .     .      ,     .    ,         .   ,      . , ,   ,             ,  ,         ,    [].      ,     .   .     .      .    , ,   , ,   ,  .    ,  .      :     []; ! ![], .  .   . , !       , ,   ,  . ,      ,  ,           .  , , .  .    ,    .  . ,   , . ,  ,   .    ,    .    .        . ,  .    , ?  , .   ,   .   ?   .   ?  ?   .  ,   .   !      .        .   . ,      ,      :  ,    ,    !  ,   !    .        .     ? ,     ,   ?   ,     ,   ,         .       .     -   .  .  [].            ,  ,     .             ,  ,   , ,  ,        .   ,    .  ,    ?     .  ,    ,       .     ?   .   ,    .   ,   !    ,  : !   ,   ,  .       ,         .    ,  .      ,   ,   .         .        ,     . ,   ,   ,    ,    !    . , !  , , . , .  . , ,     .  ,  !    ,     .  , ,   .   ?   .          .     ,   .     .       !    .      .,     , :     .  !    ,   .  .  .   .         .            , :        [].     .     ,   .  , ,    ! ,    ,    :     ,    ,   [].    ,   .  ,   ,   . ,  ,    :    ,   ,   .     : , ,           .           .   ,     ,     , .             .  -    [].    ,  ,     :    , ,      ,  []   ?   ,    .   ?      .    ,  ?  ,   ,   ,       ,    .  ,   ,      .    . !       ,      .    ?  !,   ,  ,  ,    :       ,,     ,    . ,  ,   . , ! , ,   .  , - .     .  , ,   .   . -?   ,   .   , !,    ,     .  ,       ,      []. , ?   .  ,   . ,     ,    ,   ,  .   .      .  ,     ,  , .  ,   .   ,  ,   ,   ,   ,      .      ,   .  ,         []. -,   ,       ,   ,   .   ,   ;     .   , ,    ,     . , , ,   . ,   .          ,    ,             .     ,   ,    ,    .  , ,   ?   . , ,    . ,   .         ,     .,          ,    ,        ,   .   ,     ,   .  ,   ?     .   -, ?    .       ,  .  -,    .    ?      ,  ,   .      , []?  ,   .  ,    ,    ,     -.  , ,   ,     ,      .    , - .      ,    .    .    , .    , ? , , ,   ,       .   :     ? ,   , ?   . , ?    .   ,                                        , .   ,    ,      ,        .     ,    .   ,       .       ,    , : , !      , :  ,   ,  , [].      .     ,   .    , ,   ,  .     .   , .,  ,     :         .     : , .    .          .      .  ,        [].   ,   , ,         .  ,    .        :   , ,    ? ,   :          .    ,   ,    .   ,          :     ,   .  .  , , .  []. .     [].   ,        . ,     ,  : , ,       . ,     ,   ,   .        ,     .   -   ?   .   ,      ,     :   ,   .    .       ,   :     .     ?  ?   .     .  ?     . -,   .      ,     ,    ,         .     ,   ,    ,    .         .   , ,   .    :  ,    ,  .   ,  , .     ,  ?     .     . ,         ,   :       [].       :    .,      ,    ,       .  ,   ,  ,       .  .  ,     .      . .   []?   , ,   .  .       .    ,    .      .     : ,  ?  ,    ,   .  , . ,      .  ,    ,    : ,  ,   .,   ,   ,    .   ,        .      .     :    ? ,   ,   ,  .  .      ,           . , .    , . :      ?  ,    .  ,     . ,    .   :   ,  .   , ?      [],    ,      .     .        ?     .  !     .     ,     ,    .      .   ,    :         , , ?    ,    ,     .    ,    .   - ? !   .       .   .     ,      ,      . -?   ,    .    ?         ,   ,    : ,  -!    []!    ,    .      . ,   ,    .       ,   .   ,       ,        -  .  [] ,   ,   ?       ,    .          ,    ,     .   ,   ,   ., ,     ,  ,   .  ,    ,   ,                .  -   ,     .     . ,     .         .   ,    ,   ,        ,    .   -   ,    ,   ,   :  ,  [],   ,   . -    .    .   :  ,   ,  ,    ,   .   ,   ,      .          ,    ,    ,     ,  ,    :     , ,   ,  .   ,    ,     , ! ,        ,   ,  ,       ,       .,    ,    , :  ,    .   . ,     .   ,   -   ,   ?     ? -?   -,   .     ?   .    ,  ,    .   -   ?    .    :     .   , ,   .  ,      ,   .,        .      ,      . ,   ,  .       .   ,       ,     ,  ,    ,  . , ,   ,    .    ,  , ?         . ,    ?    ,      ,    . ,   ,    .      ,   .     ,   : -!    .     ,  .   .  ,   .     ,   [].  .  .    .    .      .   ,   ,  ,     .   ,  ,    . ,     .    ,   ,  ,  , ,   . ?   . ,   .    .   ,   ,  ,       . ?    .    ?  ,   , ,        .  ,        .   ,    .     ,     .    ,     .   , , .          :       []  ,    ,     ,  .  []    [],      ,             .      : ,  ,    , ,       , ,     ,     , ,        [].,     ,   . .    , ,   []: ,          ,  [],            ., !  . !   ![] , , ,    ,     .              . ,        ., ,        .   .       .    [],   .       ,   .   . .     , ,            .   .      .       ,       .    ,    ,  -       .    , ?  ,   ,  .  ?    . ,     . ,    . , ?   ?    . -      .     ,        ,    ,  ,     .  ,  , ,      ,   []    ,    .     ,   ,    .   ,   .   ,    .      .       , ? .       .     . ,  ?    .    !    .  ,     ,     :     . ,         .     [],   .   [].    ,  .          .  , ? . -   .        ,      .      .    ?    . ,   .     .  .  , ,   .  -  , ,    ,    .   .       .    .   .      . , .  , ,    ,  :      [].   .    .  ,   ,        . ,     [].  !    .   . ,   .   ,   .  .  .    ,      .      .     .,   ,     .      .   .   , ,   , .. [] ,  .     ? , . .  ?   , . .  ?       .  .    -     .   ,   ,    []. ,   ,      ,    -  .    ?   , .      . ,   ,      . , .   :        [].     .   .    ,   ,      .     .   .  , ,   .      ?  , ?  , .  , ,   . ,  . .  -   ?         .             . ,     .   . , ,     . -, .  , ?    . . ,    .    ,    .   , ,     ,     .  ,   ,    ,    , . , , ,   .     .   .   , .   ,  ,   .      . .  :   ,    . .      . , , , .   :       ,     .  ,   .  ,  .     .  , ?   .  ,    .   .    . ,    , ,   ,    .    ?    ,   ,     .      ?       .       ,    ,      [].         [],      ?      .      []  , ,  ,      .     ,      ?     ,  ? ,  . ,    -. , ,  .    ?   ,   . " "[],   . , , .  , ? ,   .  , .           .    ,      : ,  ,  ,  ,   ,         ,    .        ,   []   ,   ,    ,   .      .          ,   ,         , ,  ,   .      .  .   ,  ,  :    [].  , , :  . :   ,   ,    ,    .     . , ?    ,  .   .     ,   .  ,    .     ,    ,    ,   ,  .       ,    [].  ,   .    ,  ,        . . ,  :    .       .  ?   . , .   , .  , . .    ?   .  ,  ,  . ,    ,   : , ?  , . ,  , .  , .  ,   . . .   .     []. ,  .  -, ?  , .   .  ,    .  ,    :  , .  .,     , :       . ,  ,        .   ,     : !   ,    - ,   .   ,           ., ,  ,  ,   .         ,       .          ,    ,   .  .    : .      ,          .  :    .         , .   .  .   ,   ?   .    ,   .    ,     , .     ? , .  :  ,  ,      .   -  ,   ,   .    ,        , ,   .       ,    . ,    []?    ?      []    ,   .   :   ,  ,      .   ,     ,    .          ,   , ,   ,       ,  , ,  ,   , .   ,   .     ,       .      .    ;        .      ,        .  , ,  :  :   .     ,    , ,    ,        ,     ,     [].  , ?    ? , .,      .       ,      ,        .  [],    .         ,      .   ,    ,     ,   . ,    ,   ,  .  ,   ,   . ,        : ,  : ,   .  .  ,  ,   , . , , ,   .       .       ,   ,       . , .    ,    : ! ,    ,   .  ,  ,      ,     .    ,    ,        .    ,       .       .   ?     ,  .      , ,    .        ,    ,      .     ,     :   ?   ?         ;     ,         .     ,      - .    ,      .   ,   .      [],    :  .     ,    ,  [],   :    .    ,  .    ,     .    .       .  ,   ,     ,     . ,   ,     .    .       ,      :  ,  ,  ,    ,   ,      .   ,  ,  .,   ,     . ,    ,      .    .  .   .  , , .    . .        .  ,   .   -,  .  , ,   ,           .   ,    .    . , ,     .     .     : ,    .     ,    .  -   .     . ,   . -.      .    ,   :    .   .    . .       ,  .     ,      .     ,   .    .    .   - .    .     ?   . ,   .         .  ,   ,    ,    . ,       .  ,   ?      ? .         -       ,  .        . !    .     .    [].       .   ,    ,        :    . ,  . "   .           ".    ?    . ?  ,   ,  , .   .  .    .    .  ,   ,   ,   ,    ,  .    [].    ,   .    ,   .    ,    .   -     .   ,    .     ,   ,      [].     ,          :  ,  .      ,     .        [].   .   ,            ,     ,        ?  , ,  .,    .     ,   .  ,  ,     .      . , [].   .      ,    .    .        [],    .   ,    []. ,   .   [],     .   .                .  ,  -.   .-  ,  .  ,  .  ,  . - -  ,   .  -,  -, . ,   ,    .           .      .     ,    .      ,          ,    . .   ,     .     .  . -           ,       , ,  ,    ,   .      .     ,       ,    :   ,   ,   ,     .        .     ,    ,          . ,      .           ,   ,        ,    ,  ,   .      ,     !  ,         ,   ,     ,    [].       . .   ,     ,   .   ,   ,     ? .    ,  . ,    ,    ,  ,    . ,    ,   .   ,    .   .       ,    .     .  , .  .      .   ,      .  .    .  ,    [].  .     .    .    . .  ,   [].   .   ,  ?       . .    .   .   . .    ,  .  .    .    .   .   .         .     .  ,     ,    .   ,          .   .   .    ,  ,          .     .      .    .        ,   , ,   ,     .   ,  ,   .      . , :     .     . ,   ,     .      .    ,       .   .    ,     ,     .    . ,   ,     .    ,,   []. ,   ,     ,     .  ,   ,   ,      ,      ,  ?    ,     .      .           .            .  .      ,       .   :  ,  ,  .       ,    ,  ,        ,    .  , .   . ,   ,     .       , ,    .   ?   .    ?     .       ,     .    ?  ,    . ,   ,   [],     .    .  : .         ?   ,    .        ,  .,    , :  .! !  -!  ?    .   ,   ,  [].         .      .   ,   .     ,  .     . - ,   , ,   ,     .        ,  []    ,  .  []  .  .  ,     . ,    ,   .         . ,      [].    . , ,    .  ,    ,         .    . , ,  . ,  ,   .    ?    .  ?    .     .   .      .  -,    .      . ,   ..  .  ,   ,     .      .   ,     .        , ..[].        .         .      . ? " "   ,    .      .       .  ,   ,    .   .   ,    ,        .  ,   ,      .  , ,   ,    .             ,      .     ,      ,  .  ,     .     :  .  ! . ,    .  ! , ,   ,    .  , ,    .    ,   .  ,  ,   ,   ,     .   ? .    ?       .  , ?   ,  .       ,     [].        ,      .    ,   ,    .     !       ,        .   .             . []  [].   ,   ,     .  ,     :   , ,  ,    . , -, :  .  .   :  . , ,  ,   ,   . ?     ,  ..     ,     [].   .  ? , .    ,  ,    .    .,  , ,          .   ,    . ,   .        ., :  [].  ,      .  . . !      ,   ,    [].    [].   .  :   .        , .  :    [].         []? ---. ,  .     .    , ?,  .  ,  . , :  .  . . .       ?         . !     . , .      ;  ,       .      -, [];      ,    .  ,  ,     .    []   ,      .     .   ,      -,  .      , ,  .   .     ?    ,    .     ,   -  .   -[].    ?    . .   .   . , : , , [].    : ,  [].     . .   [],   , ,   ,   ,      . .       ,  []. ,    ,     -   .    ,   .            ,    .    [].      ,      ? - ,   [],    ?       .  .       .    ,   ,    ,   ,      .  ,   [].   , .   , ,   [].      .  ?  ,  . ,    ,    . ,  .  . .      ?    .     ,  ? ?    ,        -?    , ? -- - , ,    ?   [],    !   .     -.  [].         . , , , .  []   , -.           .   ,  -    [].  , .  .  . ,        - .    [],    ,      . .   .  , . ,      ,        ,    ,    [].  ,    , [] [].     . , ?    ,  .  ?  , .    .  -. ,     .   .   . ! ,  ,   ,  ,        .      .     , .    , .    . ?     .     ?  ?  .    ,    .[]!     [] []. , ,   . .       ,   ,       .  .  :  ,  ,  .      ,      ,    .  , .   .       [],       [].  ?    .   []      ,     ,  ,  .    .   . ,  , -, [].  ,  ,       ? ! , ,    [].     ,  ,        (!),  , . ,  !       ,   -,     , ,   ,    [][].  ,      -   . !         . !          . -! , , , .     ,  .        .         ,  ,            (  ),  ,  (  ),    (   )  []. [],     .  [].        , ?   ,      .    -,          - .  , []!    , ,   ,  .    , !          :  !    , ?    ?      ?         ,      ?   .      ,    ,  .   ! !       .   ,   .     ? ,    .   .  , !   []    ,  ,          ,  . -       ,  [].    []. ,   [].    []                  -      - .       ,  ,  ,     [],  ,  ,  [].       ,   .    .         . :   [].     ,      ,                 . :     .  . .      .  ,   ? , .   .    -          [].        []?   , [].,   ,        ,   [],   .    ,    []   ,  ,   . , [].     [].       [].         []   .  - .  ,  . ,   .        .       [].  []?  , [].[]. .     .  ,     .   .    , ?  ,   ?   : . --. .      [],    [],    .   :     , , -[],    . ,      ,   ,    - . .       []    .   :  . , , , . ,  []. ,     . .      ? : -  [].     ,  ,        .    .   [].   .   . [].  !     ,    ,       .        .  ?  ,   . .  ,   ? ,   .. ,    .   , ?   ,    .     []    ,      : ! ![].   ,   ,   ,     . []?   :  [],        [],   ,   :    .     .   .       .      [].         ,     .     ,    .    ,  ,  .  ,  ,  . [], ,       .     - ,   ,  .        ,    ,        .         ,    [],      []   [].     ,  ,    ,  . [].  ,    ,      ,   ,   .          .   []!      .       .   . ?  .  , , ,  ? , []!  ,    .  ,   ? .      , ,  ,     .  , []!      ,  .         ,     .  ,  [],    ,    [].         ,      .    .   .        -     .  [],  , ,     ?   .     [].  [],  ,  [],  ,  [], ,   ?  .,    [],       .  , .   []    ,  .   .    .      ,  ,   .  ,  .  . .      .    ;       .       [].    [],  .  , , , ,      .  , .   [],  ,  ,   . , ,     . .   ,   ,     , -  . ,  .,         , []  ,    []    ,   ,      .      .      ,  ,     ,  .   ,  ,   ,    ,      ,     -[],         .  ,  ,  .          ,     --,     -.   ,  , ,   .   . ,   , ?  -   , , .  [],  .         .    ?    .  :  [],    [].   : -.      []. ,  ,     .    ,    .  ,  [].    ,    .      ,  ,  , ,  ,  .  ,     ?   ,     . .,     ,   , ,   .  ,    .      ,   ,     ,     -.  ,  ,   .     ,      -,     .  ?   .       .           ,        .  .           .  ,  .     ,  .         - [],    .  .   .     ,   .     ,  ,     ,    .      .     ,   .   [],   []  .     ,     .      ,   .   . .   .   . .   []. ,      .   ,       . --.,   .,   ,      :  .  ,    ?   .        .   .  .         - , .  [].     . -.   . , .    . ? []       ,         . -,       ,        [].  []      ,  ,   .  ,           ,  ,   , , ,   ,   . ,   .     ,     .       ,  , ,    .     ;    .  , ,  .   [].   , , , .  [].  [],  [],    .    ,    ? :   .  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  -  ,  ,   ,     ,  [].   .       .   ,     .  ,      --,     [].        !   ,  ?    ,  . [],   .   ? ,      .  . - .   .   .   .  , .      ,  .   !    ?  , ! ,       ,      ,     ?      .    ,     ,   . .        .           .      .  .   . , .      ,  ,    . - ,     .  ,  ,  ,      .        .     , ,     .     ,  ,  .     ,   ,    . ,   ,  .     ,  , ,  ,  , , , ,   ,   . .    , ,   , ,  .      ,    ,     ,          .   ,       ,       .     ,     .       .  , ,  , ,  ,    , , -,      .  ,  ,   ,     . , -!    -. !  , !  ,  ,        ,   ,   .  ,   .   .    , ,      ,   . ,      ,     .   .      ;    , . -   ,  .    , , ; , ,     ,   , , ,   ,  .       ,     ? .  .  . . --., .       -.   .    ,      . ;   []. ,  . .   .  .   ,  ,  . [].           , -    .      :    .       .     ,  ,     .         .    ,  ,    ,  ,   .          .  ,      ,   ,  [].      .     -:  .,  ,  !-,    . []    ,  [].       .  : -.    ,   .  ,    ;  ,     . .    .       ?   .    [],  ,     ,     .  , , , ,   [].     ,    .      , ,  ,  ,  .   [].         ,    .  ,  ,      .     [].  [],  ,    , ,  ,  ,     .. -  , ?   [].    . . ,   .    .     .       :   ,  . ,   .  ,    , : :    , , , : ---.  . ,  .   . .       .          ,    .        .    ,    , .    ,     ?   ,   ,    ,  , .        ,   ,   - , ,        .       ,  ,   .  ,    ,   ?    ?   -  - ,   ?    . -  -    .   []       :     ,    . , .   : , .   ,   , , ,   ,  , . , !      .     .     .    ,    ? .  ,     ,     ,  ,   , ,  .  ,    ,    .  ,   ,     ?     . , , .  ?     []  ,      ,    .       .      .   -,     ,  . , []:  . ,          ,   .    , [].    ? .  .    .   .,   , .    ,   []?   ,  .  .  ,  .     ,       ,    .      ,    , .   .   []. ! ,  ,  ,   [].   [],    ,     .     .  ,   .  ,  ,       .  .     .     ,   .      ,       . ,     ,   .  , ,  ,    []  ,    . ,   []!  ,  :  , ,     [].    .   ?   .   .   [].       [], -   ,  , .    . . , ,    ,   , .      . :        .      ,  , .     :     :   . , ,   .  , ,  ,   ,  . ,      [],       ,  ,          .   ,   ,      . ,  ;      , .  []       , ,    :      [].   ,   ;     :   .  , ,   ,  ,  ,    ,    .   .      [],    .  ,  .  .     .     ,  ,   . ,  ,   ,   , - -, .  .  .      . , .  .  ,   .  ,    ,       .          [].     ,    ,       .    ,      ,      . ,    .  ,   ,  [].   [].     .  .    ..  [].  .   - , ? . ,  ,   [], , ,   []. . ,   ,  []. - . ?   ,   .   .    ,    ,   . .        .     . ,   ,       .     ,  , --[].  -. [].   .   ,  . .      . , ? .   . .  , ,     , ?  .  , [].  , , , ,  - ? .  . .     ?    . ,  .   .    ,    ,   .   .. , - .   ,  .       ,  ,     , ,  ,  ,  . []          .       ,   ,   , ,    ,   .         ,          .      ,  ,   ,       .    ,  ,       .  -   .   .  :    ,    .   ,    . .   ,          .    ,   .  . .   .       ,  . ! ,   ,    ,   .        ,    , .         ..   . .         . :    ,    ,  , .    ,    .  ! !    .,  .  ,   , ,    .      .  . ,    .   ? ,      .   ,    .   .       ..     . ,      .    . !    . , ,   , , , ,  ,    - .  ,        ,     .   ,   ,    ,           . !   ,   . ,          ,  ,    .   , ,   ,   .  ? ,    .    , . ,   .     .     .  ,  .        : .       .     .    .    ,   .      ?  ,  ,  .     ?   ..  ,           . ,   - .     .  -  .  ,    :    .   .   , :  -    ?      : ..   .     ,  ,     ,     . ,  . .  ,  .  ,   ,  . ,     .  .  , .   .  .      . , .   .    , ,   .  -      .  .                   . : ,   .      .  .       : , -.      .   .  .     :   . .  ,  .   .   [].  .    .   .     , ,  -,         .  .    .    ,        .       . ,   .    ,  .  ,  ( , ?) .      .  .        ,                 .   . -  ,   ,     .         .     ,          .   ,   ,    ,  ,  -          .     .    .   ,   ,   ,  , ,  ,   .  .     , .   .   .   , .   .    ;     .   , ,  .  .   .    .       .     .    , ,     .  . .     ,    , .  .  ,     .   :   [].     .   .           :     -     [].   .    :     -.     . -      .      ,     .   :     . ,   :  .        ,     ,     .   .   .     .  ,     .  ,   ,  ,     , ,         .     ,     . ,    ?  ,  ? ,        .,    : ,  .  ,   ,  ?  -,     :  ,  .  ,  .  , .   .    ?  -   ,       .  , ,   ,      .    .  .  :       .     . ,   . ,  .    ?  [],  ,  .  ,   .    .    ,   , ?       ? ,   .,    .   . .      . , .  .    .   .      .   ? . . . .  . .  [].    ,    ,   ,   .   . , ,    :    .  ,   ,   ,           .         : .        .    ?    ,    .  :  .     .     .  .   .   .  .   .  .    . ,   .    ,    .     , ,  , .  ,     .      .    ,    .     . [],    .   ,     .     : ;  ,    ,  .   . ,    []:  ,    ,  ,       ,   ,     ,    .      ,    ,      .  ,       .     ,   ,   . , .          . , .    .  , ? ,  , .     ,   ,    . ,    .   , .  ,  .    ,         .  ,    :    .    .      .      .            .  , : -       -.  ,     . . -,  ,   .  , .         .            .  ,      ,   ,   . , . . ,  ,   .       .         .  ,   , .  , . . .   .    -,   .  []  .           .   ,    .          .    ,       , ,   . :     .     .         .    ,   .  , , . .  -   .      . ,  .   :   ,  . , ,   ?   ,  .   ,    .       .    . . ,     ,  --.     [].     .     .    ,  , , ,      .  , ,  .   ,    .     ,   . -, -;   .  ,    [].    : , ,  ,  .     ,     ,     .  , ,  .  ?  .  ,    .     []. ,     ? .  .     .   : ,   , .. .,   . , ,  .  ,  :  ,  ,    .    , -,   .   ;    , , [].  .     , , .  .   ,  .       ,     .  .    ,   ,    , , ,  .     .      .        ..    .  ,    ,    -,  .      ,  ;      .  ,   .  ,    .     .      [].   .     .    .  ?      . , , , :      .    .     ,     .    , ,   . , .      -, ,   ,   .  ,     ,      .       . , , .  [].     .  . . !  ,    ,      ,     .   ?   . . .    ,   ,    ,    .   .            .   ?    ,    ,          .  ?   , .  ,   .   ,   .  ;     ,   ,   . -  ,   .    .   .     :   ,   ; ,    ,    .     ,  : ! ?   . :    .      ,      ,   ,   .   ,       ,      , ,       .    ,      .     ,    . ,    . .           . .        ,   .   ,     .                   []. . ,      ,   -,    .  -   .      . , : .     ,    .        .  ,  .  ,   ,  , ,   , ,  .  ,      ,    ,    [].   . ,  -.     .       .     .        . , ,       !   .    .   .   , ,      .   ,    .  ?   , , , . .     ,      .  ,          .     ,   . ,    ,    .              ,    ,   . ,    ,        .    -  .  ,    .    ?   . . .   ,   .    .    ?   []  [],   ,      [].  ,   .         .     .  ,  ?      ,  :    ?  , ,   .      .   ,       .  ?      :  , .   , . .  .  , ,   .   .    []. ,     .   . -.     .          . - ,   .    .    .   ,    ,      ,      ,    .  ?   .  ,   .    ?,         . ? -.     ? ,   ,  ,   .   .    .   !   .     -. ,      .     .      . -.    .    . , .    .           .   .          .  .  .    .   , .   .         .   .  ,   .      .  .   ,   .       ?   . ,   .    .  ,    , ?    .  ? .     [].   [].   ,    .       -,    ,  . :    .  ,   ,                .   .      ,   ,     -  .  ,    .   ,     .       .       : .   . .   .     :  ,  .       .      ,  .      .  :    .           ,   .   . ,   ,      .  ,       , ,  .   , .    .         .  ,   .       ? !   .        ,      ,   ,      .         .   ,     ,    .  - .          . .  ,   ,  .      . ,         ,     .   . .      ,        .          ?           , ,         . ,        .    .  ,       .        ,   .  .        .        ,  , .     .  ,    .          .      ,   ,    .    .        .       ,   ,    -   ,       (-    )   .    ,  -   .   ,    , ...   ,  . . . .  ,   .      . .   ,   .     -.  .      .     :    .   , .    .   ,    .      .   . .  .   .    -    .    ,  ,  .  .       ,    .     .  .    . -, . .    ,      : . ,     .   ? ,    .  , .   , ..    ,  , . . .   .      ,  .     :    ,  .  .    .      []   .    .     .   , -,    .  ,   . .  .     ,      .  .  ,   . ,  ,  .       .  .   .   .  .  , ,   ,  , .  , ,      . , . . :  !  , , .   .  ,     .   - .  , , .  , , .  ,   : .  .     .    .     ,       .     .     ,  .   .,   ,      ,       .   , .  .     - .  . - . .   .      .         .  - ,   .   . ,   .  ,    .:   .      ..     . ,     ,  .       . ,     ,     .     . ,        .,    :  , .  .      ; ,     .  .  ,  .   []  .  .      ,   .  . ,  .    ,  .   .     .  .       ?   :      .     ,    .  .      .  .  .    .    . .    .      .       .   .    , ?  ,    .   .  ,   .      .  ,  .  .    .  ,      .  , , ,  .   .  ,     . -. ,     ,    [].  . .   ,  .    ? , .. ,  ,   . ,    ,   . ,  ,      .   ,       ,  ,  .    ,       .      .  .   ,         . -   .   ..   :   .     ,    .     .   .   .     .  ,  ,  , , ,   ,  .  ,  ,     ,  ,  ,      .    ,    . ,  . . !   :    .     .       , ,  ,    .    .  .   ,      . ,  .      ,    ,  .     .   []. .      ,    ,    ,               .    - .      ...    .  ? -    ,   ,  .    . , .   ,    .   . :.    ? :.      []? :.      ? :.      .            ,   ,  .   ,       [].  :  ,  , ,   .   .    .    .   .    ? ,   .  ?     ,    -   .    .   .    -  .    .    ,     , ,   .  .  . -    . ,     .     ,  ,  .  , ,  ,  ,  .        . ,  .        .   , ,  .             .  ,     ,      ,  ,    .   ?    .     .    .   :   .  !   !  !   !  !   ! .  :    , . ! []         :   ,    ( , ),  -   - .       .     .        -.     -,    ,   . ,    ,   ,    .  ,     .  ,   !       .   ,   . ,  ,  .   :    .   -,    []. , . : , .    .  .  . -,      . ,  . .     .  .  .   .          .  ,  . -    -.      . -         ,       :  ,  ,  .  . .       [].     .     ,     ,    ,            .   .  -            -. .     .      ,    .  .         :  ,    .   . ,  :  [],   ,    , ,   , -,   .,   ?    ,    [],      .    .    .  ..  [].    . .    .  ,  .   .   .    .  , ,      .    ,      ?  ,   ,    ,    .     :   .    , ,      ,   ?    ?   ,     .   .   .   ,   , ?       .   :    .     ..   ,    , .      .      ?   .         ,  ,               .  :   .    .       .         .    .  . . .      .     ?   .     ,     :      ; ,       ,     ., , .      .       .  ,     ,   :  -,   [], . -.       ,       .      ? .  :    . ,   . . :   .  . .      .  .     .   [],        -:    .       []: ,    ,  . -    :   . . . -.   .   .          []. , .        . ;    - .     ;           .  ,     .        . - : , .  ? ..    .  .    ,  . , .  ? , .  , .  ? .   ?  ,   .      ,  ,   :  - ,   ?  ,  -,   .   , .  .  , .  .    ?,   . - ,  .   ,    .   ,   .   ,  ?     .    ? , []. , ? .      ,     .     .     ,  , , ,   ,    .  ,   ,     ,    .    ,   , ,   .        .   ,   .     .   .       [].   ,    .     [],     ,   ,   ,   [].      ,  .   .       .    .  .       -  ,    , ,     - .    .  , - .     .  .      ?  :       !  ?   .    ,   .    ,  .   ,   .  .       ?   ,   .  ,   .   .    .   ?  .     ? .     . ,    .       .   .  ? .  ,   . ,  ,    . ,   ?   .      .         , ,  ,    .  , .   .   ,  .! !  ,   . ! ,   , , ..    ,  .      .   [].   .   .     -. ,   ,  .  ,  .   [].  ,  ? -,       .     .   ,   . .       ,        . -          -.  -, ?   ,  .  ,    ,  ,    .       :      ?.     .      .  ,  .   [].  , .    .            .   ,   .      -    ,  -,  .  ?   .    , .     ?  .   .      .   .  ,  ,     .      .    .   .  -  ,    ,     .    .  ,       . ,    . ,   .    .  .  ,       ,   .   -. ,    .   ,   .            ?     , , ,  .   - ,    ,       ,   .      ,    , ?   ,    ,  .     . ,    .   , . ,    . , .  .. ,  .  ,     .   .   .  .     .       . . ,  ,      .        ,      ,          .          -.    .    .  .   ,   :   .  .   ,   ,   ?    . . .  ,   ? ,   .    .    ,   . ,        .        .     .,      ?    ,       .   (),    .   . ,  .  .  []:   [].         .   .  .  ,   [].      .  !      []   !        ,  .      :   .    [].     ?  . []? .    ,           .  !   !    ,            ,    ,     .  , ,   . ! ! ,           .   ! ! ! !  ,  ,     .    ,       .     .     .      ,  .  ,    ,   .      ,    ,      .  .  !   ,      ,       .  ,  .     . :   ,  ,  .  , ,    .   ,  .    ,   .        ,  .     .   .   .    , -,   ,   ,      ,     .   .     . .  ,   .  :        .   - ,   ,    . .  .  .   .    ,     . .         ,     .    ,  ,     .   .     ,   []. .     ,        .   .  .   ?      .. ,       .,  ?    ? !   ,     . ,       .     ?     .  ,    -    .     ,        . ,  ,     ?     ,    ? ,    -  .  , ,     , .      ,   . , ,    ?      ,      .          .   . ,    ,   .  ,     ,   . ,  ,    ,  ,    .   ,   . , ,    ,      .     .      ,  ,  .            ...  ,     .   .       ,           .  .   ,    .   ,   .   ,     ,     .                                [].    ,          .    .     .,  ?  :     ,  .       .      .   .    .  ,    .  ..      .  , :  , . - , ?  .   .    ,     . ?     . -  : - .  ,    .    .       .     ,  ,   :,      .   -   ,   ?? .   . ,   .     .    .  .     ? , ?   ?, .   . -    ,  ,    .      , []..       .   ?  .  .           . .    ,   ,   . ,    ,  : , ,    , ,      [].   ,    ,     .     ,   .        .   : .      .   ,   ,        .  ,      :  ,   . .         .   .    -      ,   .   ,     .   ,  , ,       []. - ,   .  , .    ,   , ,    ,  ,   .      :  . , .    .  , ? .      .       ,    .    ;     . ,    ,    , ,              .        .   ,  ,            .  .         .   .    [] ..[],     ..    .   .      .     .   .    .   [] ,      .   .      .,  .    ,      [].    , .  .   [].    .     [].   ? : []   :  .     ,     ,      ,    ,    .   .      :  ,  .      ,  .   ,      ,   ,     . . ,  .     .     ,     .   :  - . ,   .  ,       .  []?   ,   .     .   .       ,  ,    [].       .   ,  ,     .   ,  ,  -  ( ,  ?)      .      .  :  .  ,      ,    . .  .  ,  . ? []. ..  , .    .   . ,    :  .      . -    .   , ,        ,   .        ,      .      .       .    ,   ,    ,  , ,      .  ,    :   [].    .   ,  . .   . ,    [].    ,  -   ,     .  .      [].         ,     ,  . , ,  .   :   .    .  .   -,   .   ,  ,   [],  .    .   .  .     .   .       . ,       -         ,     -  ,    .        .   ?   .   . ....[]? : ...   - .      :   ,  .  , ?    .    .    .      .     [].    ,    ,       .  .  ,   [],    ,   ,  .     .  .,       [].  .   .    .      .  ,      ,    - .      .  ,       , .  , -  ? -,  .  ,     []. .               -        ()   .   :  :  , . .  ;   :      .    .  .  [].    .    . .    ?  ,      ,  :  ,        -.        ,  [] .     [].  ?  ,      .    .  .    .        .      ,  ,    :  []!       . :   [].   ,     [].           ,   , .  ,  .   ,    ,   .    , ,  ,   . .  .  -       - .    ? ,        ..  ,      .  .    . ,   ?   .  ? .    . ,      , ,   ,  .    .       ,    .      .      ,      .     ,    ,         -.          :         ,   . .   .  - .      ?    .   .   .  ,  ,    .  ,  ,   . .  .     . .  ,  .     . ,     .     .   .   ?    ?   ,  . ,    . ,   , .  .   .    .  .   .     . , ,  .  .     .      .    .  ,  ,  :      .    . :      .          .    .         .   .     .       .  ,      . :   ,     [].        ( ,    );   ,    ,  , ,  ,       ,        .      . .   : . .  .    .   . . .   ,        .      .    .,      .   -. , ,    (!)  (!) .      .  []. ,   ,      ?  ,     .    ,    ,      . ,         ,               .          . ,     .   .   ? ? .    .  ?  ,   .   -.   .    , ,   .       .    .  -.      -.   -   . ,     .    .  , , ,  .        ? -., ,  .  ,    .     .     .     - , .  . .   . .   ,   .  .  ? .     .   .    , , .    .   . . . . .  []     ,      .  .    .    .        ,    .  .  .    ,   . :    ..   . .  . ,  ,   .    . ,   .  ,   .  .    , ? ,    .   ,    ,      .      .     ,    ,              ,  .   ,   .   .   ,      , ,  ,    .     :   ,    ,  , ,   .  .     ,  , ,      []. ,  .      .   ,   .      .   ?  [].  .   .   .    .    ,   . .. .    . ,      .     . , .    .   .   .   . ,    .     .   . , ,   .      .       ? ,    .   , ,     .     , -  .  ?  , .     . - .    ,   .      . , ,   .       ,  . ,    .   ,  ,             .        : , ,  ?  ?     ? ,   . ,   .   .   -.   .  , ,    ,  .    .   .  ,      ?   .   .     ,   ,    .  ,    ?   ,   -   .   .      .  ,  .   ,    . .  . ,    .   . .     ,    .      ,     . -  ?    .  :   ,    .      ,   .                 . , ,   .  , .       .    . , ,          .   .   .     . - ,    .      .     .      ,     .   .    .      .       .  ,  , .  ,   .         -: ,    .  .  ,  .  :     ;   : .      .    .    :      .  ,  ?  , ?  .      .   .  .   . .    .   .             -.       . ,    ,     [].  .   .    :      [],   -- .   :    ,  , ,  .    [].     ,   ,    ,    ,  .      ,   ,  ,   , -;  ,  ;  ,              [],   . [] , ,       ,  , .     ,  -  . , .  ,    .        , : -.   ?    .  , .       .        ,     .                  .  :  .    : .  ,    . ,      .           .     .   .       .   .   .     [].    .  .       .  , .   , , .     .    .  . ,    . ,  .  -  . ,     .   .  . .           . .  ,   .      , .         ,     . .  ,   ,         . -. .     ,    , ,  .     ?       . ,    .  . -. ,  , .   [],   .  ,    .         ,  .  . ,  -,       .           .     , ,   .  ?    .   ?    ,    .,       ,    , , , ,       ,   .      :       ?   []?  ,  ,    .   ,  ,    .    ,    ,  -[],   ,   [].   ,   -.  ,  .  .    . ,   ,     .      .    .        [],  -,      .   .   : ,      .   .   .     .    .    ,     .   ,   ,   ,   .        .       ,    ,    ,  ,       ,       .     [],   .    :   ,   ,  ,    .    .     ,   [].  . .             ,       ,   .  , .    .  . -   .   , ,  . ,   .    .        [].  .    .    .  .  .      -             [].   .        ,     . ,  . ,   , .   .  .     .    .       .  .  .  .   ?    .   ,    ,   .. .   ,  .   .  !   ! ,   .    . .  . . , :  , . .  -       .      -  ,    .  ,    ,       .   ?   .         .   ,  ?   .  ? ,  -    ,    . ,   ,   ,  .    ,  ,   :       , ?    ,    .    . ,    .    .          . ,  , :   ,      .    ?    ,    . ,    .       []    .    ?    .  ,    .    ,    ,    ,   .  .   ? .  ?     .  ,   . . ,  . ,      .  .    , , . .     .  .    . ,     .   .    .  , !   , ,    .    .  ,    .  .     , .  .    .     .     ,       .  . .   .    , . ,  .  ,    . ,  ,    .   ,    .       . ,      ,    .  ,   ,   . .    ,     .     .      ,   .    []      . , -  , ,    .   , , ,       []  . ,      .  ,      , ,    ,          . ,      .       .     .    []?    .  ,    .    ?   .      .       . -,     .  , .      ,  ., , , , , , ,   ,  ,      ? , , .          .   [].  .    .    ,     .    ..      .                   .   ? .    ,      ?     . .    .      ..  .  .   . .,  .   ,   .     .     .   .   , ,   ,     .    -      ?       ?     -  ,  ,  ?  .  .    ,    .  .  .  , .     ,   ,   :  .  .  [],   .         ?   .    []?    .   .    ,  , . [].        .   .   .  .  . .      .    -?  ?    ,     .    ,    .  , .  ? ?    .  ,    .   ,  .    .   .             .        ,    ., .         ? .      .   .    . .  .  .  ,    :  .  : , .     .     .            .     .    .  . .,    .     .      ,     .  :     , ? ,  ,    .    .  ,       ? ,  ,    .           .   ,    .   ,    .  ,    .     [].     ?    ,    .   ,      . ..   []   . ,  .  ,      .    ,   .           . . -    . . ,  .    .   [],      .:         ,  : . -,   .,     .     -.    ,  ,  ,    .     .   .   .   , !  ,  .   []. .   . .     . , :    . :   [].   ,   .     [].      :  .. .       .       .  .:  .   .     .  ,   .  . ,      ?    .  -  ,      .   ,       . ,  []  -  ,     .    ?   .  ?    []   .     .   [],   .          [],       .     ,    . ,    ,  :     ! ,   ,    ,     .    ,     .      .   ,  : , ,    .     ,    .    ,     .   .  ?    . -.   ?   ?    .    .   - ,    ,            ,     -?    .     ?  ,    .       ,        []!    .   ,  !    ,     .  ,     ,         .  .           ,            .  !      .   ? !    .   !             ,    .   . ,    ,   -    .,    ,        .   -   . -, ,    .  . .   ?      .     ,     .       . . ,   !   ! -     ,    .  :        ,   .       .    !    ,    .   !     ,        ,  , ,       .   .  ,      ,   ,    .    . ,    .  .     .  : .  .    .   ,    -.    ,  .        . ,   .  ,    .      .  ,   .  ,  .    . .  .    ,  ,   ,   ,   , ,  ,  . ?   .   .    .   .     [].    . . .       -  .  .   .  ..  .   .   . ,    .  - . , , ,     .  , ,  ,       .  .       .. . . . .  .  ,   .  ,  .     .  ,    .  .     -.   [].    .  .   .   [],    .   ,    ,       .     , ,   .    ,   -  ,    .  , ,     .       . , ,   , ,    .   ,    . ,   ,   .    .  . ,  .  .   [].    .       ,    .   .     ,   .       .    ,  .   []   .   .     [].      ,         .    .    .    .  .  ,       .  ,   .    ,     :    ,   []. . .   .  , .      .   ,   . .    .   , .  .  ,  .        .   . :  .    ..   .   .   .   .    -.    .   ,  ,    . ,    ,    . , ,    .      .   []. ,  ,    .     .    -,            -.   []?       .    [].    [].     . !   . -.    .  .     .  .    .    , .     [].  ,    .    ,    .    ,  .    ,       .  ,     .     .       .   ?  , ,  ,    , ,      .         ,   . ,    . ! !    ,      .  !  !, .    . .         . ,  .    [].  .     :   , , , .     .  .     ,  ,  . ,    ,          ,  .   .   ,           ,    .            .   ,    .   .     . ,    ,       ,     , ,   .        , ,  ,   .    ? ,    -,    .     -.    ,    .  ?    ,    .      ,     ,   ?  , ,    -,    .    ,    ,        ,          .   !      .     . !     ,     .     .  !     .!  !    .  .            ,   .     .  . ,   .   .    .    .     . ,  . .  .  . ,    ,    . .   :  .  .    .         .  .  .    .           ?    ,   .  .  .     -  .      .  -.    -.     :   . :  .     .         .  ,   ,    .   [].    .                      ,  ,  ,   . , , ,       ,    .   .   ,  .    -  ,  .   .   []     .  .  .  . .   .   .  ,   ,  . ., . ,   ,  .     . .     ,   .   [].  . ,     [],    .    ,    .  ?    .   ,    .    ,    [],    .    -.  .  .      , , ,   ,     ,   .   .     .  . ..,    ..   , ,                  .   .        .   .     [],   .    . ,    .   . .  ,   .     .   ,    .  ,    .    .      ,     []. .  .   .  ,   ,  [].   .  ..     .    .     .    .     .   .  .    . .   .   .   .   .        -.    .      ,    . .       .  [],   .  ,     ,  ,  ,         .   : .     , ,     ,  .  .       .  .           ,   ,      .  ,   ,      . :    .  . ,  ,  ,  .   .         .    :   .  .   ? ,    .    ,      ,   .  ,    ,       .      ?    -          .     . .  ,   [].    ,  .  :  ,      .         ?        .     .         .    ,   .   .   .       .  ,    ,  .      ,    ,    ,     .  , , [].      .   .     ,    .  :   .         .      ?  , .  .  :    ,       . -?    .   ?   ,    .        .       . .  !    .     . !  ,           . .    ?    . , ,    ,       .  ,     [].    ? .         [].  ,      .    .     ,    .  ,    .    .      .   ..    ,   .     .  .    ,  .   .   . ,     .    .     .  ? .  .     ,    [].  .   .    [].          . ,   [].   . ,   .  ,    - . -  ,    , ,   , .    . -     ,           .  , ?     ,  .       .   .       ?        ,    .    .    .     , ?       ,    .  !       .    ?        ,    ,  .      .   ,   . -,     .   ,   ? ,    ,    .     .     .      ,    .      ,      .      ,  .      ?    .   ?    ,      .     .       ,        ,  ,     .  !     ,  ?   .            .      .     .  ?     .    ?     ,    .      ,      .  .  ,     ,      .           .    ,   , ,     ,            .         ,    ,   .   [],     - .      ,    ,        .     ?  :  [].   ,        . .  , -   . [].  .  .  [].  ,     : .   . ,    ,   .   ,    .     ,  . :  .       , [].    ,     -. .   , .    .     .   .    ,            .   .     ? ,   .  ,   .       .        .  :     .   ?  [].    []                   .   : .     . . .   .              .     ,  .         .      .   :     .      [].    .   ,      .   .  ,    ,  .  .           .       .     :   , , , ,  , ,  ,     .            : .   .  [].        .   .  .  -   .    ,   .     ,   .    ,       .      ,  ,           ,   .    ,      .     ,       .      ,          .    . ,    .  ,      .        .   ,   ,    ,   .     [].      , !    , ,    .      .    ,    . ,    ,  ,  .      .   ,   ,    . ,  ,     .     ,    .        .  ,     .        .    ,    .   ,    .  .    .  .    ,      ?      .   ,       . ,   . , :   .   .  .   . ,  -  .  :   [],        ,    .    . , ,  .   :      .      . ,    .                  ?  ?  .  .    ,      .      ,    .    : , , .    -   .  .     .     .    . !  .   ,   . !  !     ,        .       ,    .    .   .  [].    .   -,   .  ?      .  .    .  ,    . ? ?    .  .        ?     .   .    . ,   .    , ,  , ,   , , .   . ,  ,     .      .   .    , -,       ,     .     .    .    ?  ?      ?,     -   .  :   , .  .  ,     ,         ?   ,  ,  .    ,    .      .        .    .          .    .  ,    , .     .     .   :      .  ,    ,         .      ,      ,       .     ,     ,     ?   ,    .     ,    .        ,   , ,     : ,    , ,         . ,      ,  ,  . -,  -  ,   .      :  .         ,     .       .   : ,  ,      :         . -  ,    . ,           ,    ,      .   ,     . ,   ,   .  ,    .    ,  .     .        .   ,  ,  .         ,  - ,    .  [].      . ,      ,   ,    ,    .     .    .  .   ,     .   .       []. ,    .       - . ,    .   . , ,   .   .         .     []                              .  .  .      ,     .   .       ,  .   - ? ,   .  ,   .   .       ,   .     .   ,   .    .   .   []. .  .      .  .     .     .   .   .      .     ,    .       ,      .  .    ,   .      . []?    ,   ,    ,   .    , ,  :  .    : ,  .  []     .  , .    .  ,          .    .       .           [].    .     -    .  .   ,   ,  ,     .   .        , , , .  . .    , .     .    .      .  ,    .  .  [].        . ,    .    .       .          .   .   , .      .    ,        .      .   :  . -.         .   ,  .   . .           ,      .     , , , .   .           .   :      .         .     [].    .     .   .       .   .    .     ?   . ,    .   -   .    .   ., ,    ,     .         ,   . .     [].     [].         .,  -       ?     .        .  -       .       .  , .  - -             .    .   . ,  .    .  .      .       .       .   ,      []? !       .        .   .         -      .         - .  .     [].    .         [].    . .         .    [].   , ,   .       ,   .,  . .    .  .    ?    ,    .   . , ,     .  .         -.     .      .       ,  . .   .               .   ,   ,      .    :    ...      - .  .  .    . ,     [].  . .    [].    , . .       ,      .       .   .      .  ,   .   .    .    .    .   :   .    . ,   .    .    .   [].  .     ?   ,  . :      .   .      .   . :          ?          [].         .        .  .     ?[] !  . -.        .     .     .  .   [].     :      .      .         .  .      .   -     ?           . -    . :   .  .      ,    .      .           .    .        ? !     ! , :  , .  .  .   -                -    .  .  .    .         .  .  .      .      .   .     ,   ,   .      ,         . ,   ,    []:  -   . , .     . :   .      ,    .    ?    .  ,    .  .     .   . [],   , .   .  -   ., ,          .      .         .    .  . ,     . ,   .     . ,    .   , . , ,  .           .  -,   ,      ,    ,      . ,    .  ,   .    ? ,   , .   ,   .   ?  ,   .  ,    ,   .   , ! . ?    ?  .      . ?    .  . ,    ?           . , !  .       .  . .      , ,     .      .    ,    .         .    : .         .         ,       .       ,    .  . , , -     . . , :  . . .  .   , ,       .  ,   [],   .   . ,    .  ,     .        : ,      .    .      -.  .    ,   .   ,  ,     .   .         , ,  ,  ,  ,     ,      [].         .     .  -   .     .    .       .  .       .   . .  .    ,   .    ,   .   .      .   .   .,   ,   . , .   ,   .       .    .     .        []        .   :   .    :      .     [].    .    .  ,       [].       .  ,        .   .    .   ,   .  . .     .  .       . !  . ,      .   ,  . -     ,     ,  .   :  [].  .         .        .   .     ?                      [].   . []!   -   .   .     ,   .     ? , , . ,   : .        .  . -   . !     .      .          .  ?  -        .!  . . -.     . - . . .      ,   .       -.       ,   .    .  ?    [].       , , ?  . .      .       .     .    .     ?  .     []        .  .   .    .      .  .      .    .      .   .       []?  ., , .    .       .     .     .  . ,        .   .     .   .   .        .  .     .      :  ,     .  :  .    .  .      .       [].    .   .                         .   .     .      .       .        .      ,   .    .    , , .     .       .        .  :   .     ,  -  ., .  . ,  , ,     .     .      .   .  .  , ,  .      . , .                 .    : .      .    .      , .   ,       .      .   .  , ,    ,   . .     ,    .         ,  .  ,         .    ,        .    .    ,    .        . ,    .     .  , ,    ,    .    .      ,      . . .        .    ..  ,     . []     []  ,  ,  ,   ,   , ,   ,     ,  , ,    , -.        :   ! ,  !              ,    ,  . ,  !       .   -  ,    -,      ..[],       , , ,    ,     , ,    .              -      .     ,             -.  ,    .   .   , ?    ,       .    .  ,    ,    ,   ,      ,  .         .   .     ,    ,   . ,    ,     ,    ,     . ,    .     .. [], , ,          : .    ,           , , ,               .    .     ,    ,   , .         : .      ,   .    .   , , , , .   ,      ?   -.    : -.        .  .  .:   ;    ., .   -  : , [].  ,    . ,    .    ,     .    ,    .    .  []. -  , --  .         ,     .      , , . . ,  ,    ,    ,   : ""!   :  ,       .   ,                       ,   .      ? .  .      ,     .    ,    ,     [].          :    . . .      . .      .   .     .  ,   : . ,  .         .          ,   .,       .   .    .          .   - , ,  ,      .   [].     - .     ,   .               ,     .  . .          .   ,   .   .   ,   ,   ?      , .  , -  .  . ..[].   .     .      .  :     .        . , ,   .     .    -. --.  ,          ,         ,   , -, -.  .   .      , ,   .    -. ,  []  .          .            . , ,      .    .    ,    ,     ,   ,      .   ?   . ,    .    ,   . , ,   .      .       .      .   .    .             .  , ,   .    ,  ,  .      .  ,    ,    . . .  .   . ,    ,    -  ., .      . .     . ,   , ,  ,         .  ,    ,    .    . ,        ,    ,     ,     ,    . . .    .      ? ,  :  ,  :   .      ,       . ()[]  , .    .  .     ,  ,     . ,  .      .   , ,   .      :  . ?   ,   ?          .  ,    ,    .   , ,   .    . ,  ,   .    .    ?         .           .  .   ,   .     ?  ,    .       .     .      .  ,       ,   .,  .  ,  .   . ,  .  .   ,   .        .     ,     .   , ,    ,    ,     .       .   .           .                             , ?                     .  ,  ?    -     . .     - . .   .   .        . .          --    . -.       .     .      -  , ,  .   ,    . -.        ,  : .     ?     .  ,  ?    ,     . , ?     .  .  ? !    .  .    ,  ,   ,    ,      . ! , .   .       .   .   :  :   . [].    .              .  ,   .            : ,  , ,  ,  .      .  , ,      ,  .     .  ,   . ,   .     ,     .     .   ,  .       []  ,    , .   .  , !              .    . ,  .    ,  .             .              .       .               .   ,    .      .   .    .      ,    .  ,      ,  , ,   ?   .    ? .    ..    .     .       ?    .        .           .  ,   . -? , ,     .    .   ,        .    .    ?           -.         .. . .       .   .    ?    .  ,   .  .,      []  ,          . ,          ,   :  ,           ?  ,   ,   :       , ,   ,                  ,   ,      ,   ,            . , , ?     .     ?  ,    .       ,  , :     . , ! , !     ,    ,          ,      [].  ,      .       . -  ,   ,   , ,    ,     . . .  ,    .  ,  -      . ,   .  [], -,     ,   . ,   .        .     .       . , -   .    .                 . -      . .  ,    .    ?    .     ,      .     .,    ?     .   ,   ,   .     .   ,    .     ?    .  .   ,   .      :  .  ,   .., .   .    ,   . , . , . .  , ?  .  ?..  .      . , .       .    . ,    .   .     ,    .     .     ?   ..,     .  ,    .    ,   .   []   ...             . . .  .  .    .  .       .  ..  ,    .          . ,   -       [].  .     .       ,       . .   ,    .   ,    .          ,       .      -. ,  , ,    .      ,     !     .      !  ,    ,      ,          ,    .  ,  !?     ?      , ,          ,     ,      ,   ,             ,    .    [].     ,      ,       !    ,   .     !    , .    .   ,     ,    :  .   ,  .              .  !   .  []    -     .     ?        .          .      ,  .   . ,  .  .    .    .,   ,   ,      ,      .     ,    :   ?   ,  ,  [],     . ,  !     . , ,    ,  .      . !   .      .  ,  ,    ,  .  , .     .   , ,     ,  .    , ?    .      []!   ,   .   !     !    , ?    ,     .  !   .    ,  ,    .      :   .  . !         .    !  []!   .  ,   .,           ,  ,            . -. -. ,   ,    .   ,  ,   .       . .       ?    ,          .    ,       .   . , .    . , ,   ..,    ,     .  ,       []?   .   ,    .           .      ?   .  ,  .    .    -,   ,  ,    . ,   .   - .         ,           .      ,  ,     ,   .   , .     , .       ,   .      .,   ,     .     , ,   .      , .    ,    .  , . , ,     .      ...  , -   :    ,  . ,     ,        .   ? ,  ? !   ? ! . .   .    ,   .        ,    . , ,   ,        .   ,    ,    .    ?   . ,   .     ,  : ,    .  ,    .    ,    ,  ...   .             ,   :    [].      -,    ,      .   .  ,    ,  .        . ,     ,   ,      . !   .     []...         ,       ,    .    ,   ,        .  ,       . ? !   ,   .  ,     ,      ,               .     ,   ,     . ,    ! ,      .  .    .      ,   ,      ,        .   ?    ,  .     ? ?   .       .  ,     [].   . ,  ,    .    ?     ,         .     ,   ,     .     ,     . , ,    ..,   .   , ,  ,   .    ?    ,   .          . ..      . ,   ,  .      ,    . ,      :,     ,   []. ,     . , ? , ,   !    .     .          :  .   !  ,    ...         [].  -   ,   .        .  ,   .     .       .             .,    []  ,    ,    .     ,  .     , , [].      ,      :     ? , :   . :  .        :   .   [].  ,   ,    ,       ,     (      []),    [].    ,     :   .    .    ,   .     ,        ,     .     ,    ...        .     ,    .         ?   .       .        ,   .  , ?     [], ,     .     ,    . ,  []!   .   ,      . ,  ,   .  ?   ,  .  .     .  : !    ? , ,   .     ,     . ?   .  .   ,   .  ,   .    ?  ,  .            . , ,   ,       .  ?  , ? .    , ,   , .     .     ,  ,    ,      .  ,   .       ,  !   ,            . -!    . - ,   ,   . ,  .  , ?   . , ,    ,   .   . .         [].    !   ,     .            . -   !  .  ,  .    !     ,  ?    ,    -   .      .    .   ?   .   ,   ,    .  -   [] .          ,   .         .      .   .    .     ,      :   .  . ! !    ?  ?  []?     -. ! []!     ,     . !   .   !  ! ,      [].  !  .     ,  .   !          .     [],      ,         ,         []. -.  . ,  ,      [].   .   .    ,       ,     []. -! --!    .       . ,  ,  !      :     .   .    ,     ,       .   [],   .    .     . , ,   .    .    .   .     ?   .     ? ?         .  : " ".  ? , . !       .      ,   ,   ,  . !   .   .  ,        .,     ,          .     .    .   ,   ,   ..   .  , ,        - ?   ,    .  [].     ,   .   ,    .  ,   ,   . , .    ,   ,      .   ,     .   .   .  []. -!   ,   .    !   .   .  !      .  ,    -  ,   .  - .   .    [].   []  .   .   . !      .      --[].  !   ! -  - .    ,   . ,       [].       ,     .,  ,     .      ,   ...    ,    ,    .   .   ,    ,   ,       . ,    .   . ,    ?   .      .     [],  ,   ,    ,  ,        .  .     . , ,   , ,  -     . ?  . "- ",   ,        .    .  , , , ,    .     .   , ?  ,     .  . ,        .    .  ? -, ,  ?    .  , ,  ,    ,    .  .   . ?   .    ? ,    ?    ,     .    ,   .  .    ?   .  .  .       ? .  ?     . , ,  ,    . ? . .   ,   ,   .     . .         .    -.   ,   .    .          .     ,         . ?    ?  ?         ,      . , ,  ,  , . .... ?       -.    .   ,   .     ,     .      . ?,    ,   .    .     ,    .     .,      .   ,     .      . [],  ,    ,       ,   .      : ,   .      .  !    .    -  [].       .  -   .             .       [],        .    [].   .   .[]!      !   ,   ,     []. ?  ? ,   .   .      , ?   .  .  ,      .  ,     .    . ,  ,   ,        -,     ...   []    ,  ,      ,       .  -         ,   []   .      -,   !       ,     .  !  ,  !      ,   ,  [],   ,   ? ? ,  ! !    ! ,            .  -   ?  !      .  , .    -  , ,  ?      ? -   . , , , , . :  ,  ,  ,  , [].          , ,  []. ,     ,   [],  ,  -, ,   [],  ,  ,   []   ,     [].   , ,   ,  :  :  [].    ,     . []..     .  ,   ,   ,        .          []  ,          [].      []       ?          , [],   ,            ,       [],        .       ,  ?    .           ,      .    .    ?   -. [].         []?! ,  ,   ..,  , ,   []. ?   .   , . ,  .      .  ,  ,   ,  .       ,   ,      ,  ...     ,   :  ,   ,     ,     .    ,    .   .      [].,     ?     .    [],     ?     ?   .,  []        ,   ,   .        [],  [],        []. -.    ,   .  ! . ..   . . - .      .   ,  ,    ,     ,     ,    ,       []. .. ,   :    :  ,   ,  ,   ,    ,      ,   ,     -,       ,     .       . !     .  ,     .   ?   ..  .,       ,   .      ,  ..    . ,   ,   ,    , :  .   []    ,     .    ,        ,   ,    ..?      .     .   ,    - [], .. ,              []. ,  ,  ,    ..    , .  .    ?   ?     ? ,  . ,    ,    .   . ,  - .    ,   ,    .[]     .    [],    ,         , ,      .      :     ,        .  ,     [],   ..,      .        ,    .   .   ?  ,   ,       ,   ,     ,    ,       [].     .    ,  ,     .       , ,  ,       ,     ,   ,   .      ..:  ,   ,   ,   .    ,     ,          .     , ,      .    - ,         (    ).   ,    ,   ..        ,   -.       ,    .    ,  :    ,  .   .     ,     .    .     .         ,  . :  ,   !     ,           .  ,     ,    ,   ,    ,             ,     . ,  ,     ,       ,     .    [].   . .      ?   ,   ,          .     ,      .   ,      [],            ,       . ,  !     .  , ,           ?     :    .       :     ,   ,   ,   ,     .      :    , ,      ..    [].     ,    ,     , ,  .     :   ,   ,    .    .    , , :     .      :    ,    .     :      .      .      : ,   ,              ,      ,   ,       ,                   .                  ,     ,     ,     .    ,  .    !..    :     ,     .                         ,   .        .,           .     ,   ,    . .        [].      .        .      .  . -     - -  .         .   . ,   .              .   . ,       ?     .  , ,   ,   ,  ,      .       .      ,   .   .   .      ?     !  , :      ,   ?    .    .  ,    , ,    : , []!   !   ,    .  .    ?       . . .    . .   ?   .         . ..,    ,   : ,  ,   . ,  .   ,    . , ,   .    ,   ? -  .  []!   .   .      . -,  ,           :  , !.   ,  .    -.    ,   .   ?   ,     .    .     ,   :  , !  [].   [],   ,    ,        -.   ?   .   .     .  .      .  . -. , !. , .   .         .               .       ,   ,    .     ,     .      ,       .  [],    .                  ,     -.          ,      ,     . ,       ,       , ,   ,   ,   ,   ,    ,      ,        . ,  .     ,    .      .          ,     ,       -[].             . ,   ,  .  -.    .       ? .       ,    , ,    .       ,      ,    ... ,       .      .  -,   ,    . ,  ,     -        , :  ! ! ""!  , ! ,   ?    ,  .       :    !   !      ,    ,   ,      .        .  ,     .   .       ,   ,   .    ,    ,     ,     .        . ,  .   ,   .  ,  , ,  .    ,        ,  ?... ,       !    ,   .       . .  .   .   .      .   .        .      .           .  -   .  .      ?  ,    ,     .     , , -,   . ,    .   .....       []!     .     ,    .    ,     ,      .    [], ,   ,    .      .   .       ,       .   , .    .    - ,     ...      .        .                 ,      .  -  ,     .        .  !         ,    .   .      .   ,   ?   ,   ,   .         ,   :    ,   ,   . ,  ,     ,         ,    .    .     .       ,      [].  !   .    .   .  ,    . ,                ,   ,     ,            .              ,    ,   ,       .        .  ,       ,  ,     .  ?    .  ,      .      .   .  ,        [],   ,    .   ,     ,    ,     .      .    ,               . .  []    -., !             ,     , , ,   ,  ,    , ,     ,     .  , ,  ,  ,  ,          , ,  ,  .?     ?     ?    .      ? ,  .         , ,   ,      .  , .  :     []. ,   .    :      [],     .  ,   .  . ,      .     .       ,   ,   ...        ..      ,   . ,   .                   .       .  ,        ?  ,   ,  .   ,   .   ,    ,         . [] ,  ,  .          [].   .     .    ,    . . ..     ,      .    [],           ,  -     .   .  ? .        , .    ?     .    . , , , ,  , ,  ,  [].  . -       [].! !! !!!   . .       []. [].   .       -    .  .           .     [].    .   .    .     .      . ,    ,  , .     ?  .    .     .  , -.    .          -.    ,   . -   .       .   .      .     .    .               .   .  -   ?      .  -    .   [].    .        [].    .       ,       .       -   .    .    .  .   .    .    .     .  : ,   .   -    .    .      .    .    .  .     ,  ,  ,   .     .  .       .   -        .   .   , .     .        .   .    .  ,   !  . ,      . ,  , ,   ,      .   .     ?   .      .     . -.             .    ., , .   .  -.      .  ,      .  . ,   ,    ,    .     .                   . .  ,  .  ,  , -!    ,    .         .   . . .,     [],   . , ,  !  !     ,      .      ,  .  :     ..   .  ,          ,       []. ?   , ,  ,  ,   ..  .    ,      .    .  .           .        .    . ,     .     . ,   .  ,    .   .   .   .    .          .     .          ?   ?       ,  ,   ,    -   ,  ..  .       .      ?          ,      .     .     .       , -     .   , .   . -  .              [].       ,    .   .   .   .  . - , ,  .   ! ? . .  .     ?, .   ,     .     .   .      .   .      [],  . .     .     .     .   : , .              .   !          .    .     . .    .   .       .  -  .   ,      -,  -.    ,        .    .      .      -  .   .     .      ,    . --.    .        ,   ,      -  ..     :  ,  .          : ..-..  . "" ,    -  ,        .   .    ,     ,   .     ,    .          .     .      :         ,  ,    , , .     ,  .   -       .    ,     . ,           . ,    .  . .  . ,  ,      .            . -         ,   ,   .    . ?  . ! ,    ?  , , ,       ,     , -, [].       .        .  .     ,    .       .? ?          .        .        .      .     [],  .   .   : .         .       .         .         .   .        .       .   ,  . ?  ,  .     - .  -,     ""  .   .  .      ?       [].    -.  , :    .         .  .   :           .     -[].   [].              .        .   .          .     .     -   .  ,   .                .    .       ,   .     - .   .       .        ,      . -  .    .    . .   .     .  ,     .    .    : .      .        .  . .      [].    .  .    . .               ?  , .      --. -  . []?  . ?    .    .               .    ,    [].     .     .     [].              []        ,         . ,   .         ,    .   .         .       .   ,  .   .    .         [].         .        -. ! -!    ,     ,    .    .    .                - .  .           . .      .      .        .           .     .  .  .    ,  ,  ? ,  ,  ?   .   ?      . ,     .   , ,    .   !      ? ,     .     .     ?    ,    .    ?   .  ,   .    -,    .     .    ,  .  ,    .  .  ,    .  ,   -  ?      . ,    .     . ,   . ,  .    .     - []   ,   ,  -    .   . , :  .      ?       . -     . ,  ,  !   .   ,     .        ,    .    . ,    .   ,    ,     .          .   , ,   ,   ,     .    ?    ,  .    .     ?   .        . ,  .  :     .   -    . .  . .   .         .  .    .         ?  ,    ? ,   .  - .   ? ,  ,   .        . ,      ?   .     ,  ,  .  ?    . .     .   .   .   ,   .     .. ,      .  !    .      . , ,   .      .   ?    ,  .  ..? ..: -[],   .  -   , ,  .    ,     . ,    .      .        .  ,        .  ,         .        ,   .   .    .    ,    ,    .  .      .   .        .       . .  .    ,    .         .   .      ;     .         .     .   , -. , . ..: -. .      ?    .  ?   .     .  .      .  -  ? .  . .        ,     .      -.     .    . !    .     . ,    .        .      ,    . !    .       .   . ! !    ,   .   !  !    .   .            , :  !    . ,    ,    ,           .      ,     .        ,   . -,    .        . !   ,   ?    .      ?        ,    , .  !    ,   .      -.   . ,   ,   .      .  .   ,  ? ,    . ,    .         ,  ,    ,       .    .  .     ,       ,    -     .[].  .      , ,            .  . !    .      .   ,    .       ...:  .         [].         ,     .   .      .    .    .     .     .    . .    .    ,    .     .   ,    .          .              .    .      .     .      .   ,  [].         .. ( .).     ,      .     ,   .     .     ,  .,  .      . .  (.)       .    [].     .     .   .   .    .     -.     [].              ,      .   .  -  .    ,      .    . - .  . ,      .       .  -     .    .      .     .      : ?          .       . -  .  !                .    .           .     .       -            [].     . .         .         .       . .      ,  .  !  .    [].          .   ,     .       .   .     [].      .        . -                   . .  !            .    .   .      , .    -.   .     ?       .     .    .  .      . . . .     . . --!       ,  ,    . !  !      -.             .    .      . -     .      .   :   .    .  .         .     [].      ,             .   .                                                 -                .  .    .  .  ,   ,  .    .  .       .       .  .   .     .    ,   .    ,     . -,    -.      .    .    .    .       . ,   .   .     ,  .       .    .    ,  .        .   .  ,     ?    ,  . , . , .  ,  ,   . ,         ,    [].    .    -,    . . ,   ,  - ,  .   ,       .    [].     , ,    .  .         .      .   ,  ,    ,    .   .     .     .       [].  ,      :  .       .     .    .        .    [].     .      , ?      .      .     []:    .       ,         .                .                 .     !         -!       ,     .    ,  .      .        .        .    .      ,  [],         [].    -   .  [].       .   .     .  .      . , !   []!     []!:      .  [].   .   -          .             .    [].     .         [].             [].  .               .     .        .      .     .  .     .         ?    - ?    . .    ,     ,   .   , ?           .    .   , [].   .       .    .   .    . -  .    ,       .  .      .  [].  .       ,    .    ,    . .   . .           .         .    .    . .     .        .         .      .     .          .         .  .       [].   .        .     . -       .     .    -.  ,      ,         ,     .     , , , .  .   ,    :   -,  -.      .   .             .   - - .   - .       .     .    ,    ,     ,  .  ,    ,    ,  , . ,   , ,  ,  , .     .  , .  ,  .           .     ,       . -   .       .   .     .   . .   .  [].   ,    .   ,    [].   , .  .    .  . , :   .      . .   :  .    .        .        .   .   -      ,       ,      ,   [].  :  .    .     . , .           .    .    .      .            .        ,  , ,   .    .   .   ,  .    .   :   .      .          .       .    .     .      .     : .       .    ,  [],      .  ,     .  -  []       .  .  .  .     [].                    .   [],           ,      .    ,     .   .  .    .    :  .      [].   ,  ..      . ..:    ?  .  [],  ,     .    ?     . , . -   . . -  .   .       .       ,   ,   .    .     .  -.            .   .       . .     .      .    .         ? . [].       .  .  .   .     .     .    :   .   ,     .  . .                 -     .               :       .        .     .  ,  , -!     -        ,   .     ,     ?   .  .     .     .   .       .  .           .          .    ?  .  .                    .     .           .      . ,  .       .    .    ,    ,       .   .   : .       .        .     . .            -.      .      : -   . ,         .   .       [].   -      .         -    .  :    .      .      .  . ,   .     .   ,              :    ? -    ..   .     .   .   , , .      . :   :   :  :       ,  ,   . .     .   .      .  .                 .    .      .  .    ,   , , [].    ,   . , . .       , , . . . . ... .    .  .     ,      -.                 .    ,   .         .              . .    .   . .      .    -            .  .         ,        .     [].   , ?   , -    .  , , ,  , .  , .          . -   .     . -  ? - .     [].   .     ?      ?   .   .     - - .         .    .     .  ?  .   .  ?      ,    ?    .  .    .      .  , ,  ,        .        .        .  .   .       .      .         .  .   .         - :  .    .[].    []! -.  .  .     . . :   .  .       .        .   .    . :   .  -  .       .      ? ,  .    .        .     .  . ,      ,  ,   .   .   .   . .  .  .    ,    ,  , ,  ,   .  .  .      .  .    .       . . .  .  .   .     ,    . ,  .  , , .  , , ,      ,    ,     ,  ,   . , ! !  , !  ! !            .     .   ,  .  ., , . ,       ,  ,     ,  , -    ,     .            .   . ,         ,   ,     .     :       . ,   .  ,  .   .     .    ?      [].   .  . ! ! !        -         [].     . - .     .      .   .   . .     .  ,     ,    ,   ,   ,  .      .            ,     . , ,  .   .    .   :   [].    ,     . , ,    ! ,  . ,      .   .    .                .  .  .       .   .   .        .  .    .    .  :   .  .        .,  ,   ,      .  :      .   ,    ,    ,         .  .    -    .  . .  -  -. ?  ?        .   :  .   ..     .   .     .    .  -  .   .    .  .    ,   . . . . .       ,   -.   . ! !  -   .           .      .                []             .  -,  -,   ,   , -   ,      .    .   ,    .      [].   .    .           .  .   .     .       -.           .    .        ., , .      .         ?        .      .                   -,    .     .    .         . .   . -.  .     .      . -      . .  .         ,     ,       .    .      .      .   ..    .  [].  .    .   .   .   .     ,      .      .     ?   .  .    ? , ,     ,    []. , .  ?    .       .  .     . ?        . .       ?    !     .    .   .  ,     .   ,  .    .      .     .       . -   .      .      .    .           .  :  . .    .      .   :   [].      - . .     .  .    .        .  :      [].    .      ? , .    ,    .   .    .    .    .      .   . .       .  .   ,   [].  -.  ? ,      .    ? , .    .     ?    .       .   ,  . .        .    ,   .   .  .         . ,   . ,  . ,  .    ? .   ?  ,  , .       .   .      - .  -     .    , ? , .     .   . , .  -   . ?   .   ,    .     . ,  ,    ,         .      ?  ,     ?         .    ,      . .      .  .  . .   .    -  ,  ,   , ..    ,     ,    . ,   .  ,   . :  .    .     .    ,       [],         .       , -,    ,         . ,  .    , ,   .       , -,    .     ,  , ? ,    , -.           ,   .  .       -   [].   -. ,     ,    .         ?    ,  ,    .       .   ,     .    , ,   ,         ,  .      .   .      ,   .  .     . .   .         ,    .         .   .      ,   .    ,    .   ,    .       .     .     .    .    ,    ,   .    .         ,     -.  ?    .    ,   ,   .   , ,    , .    .  -,   .    ,   .     .           .    .  .    ,    . ,     .  ,     .      .      ?  .   . ,   .     .   .         .     .     .    .          -,      .       .   ,   !         -   .  .       .     .   .     . . .    . .     .     .  .       : ,   .       .   ,  ,     ,      .        .         .  ..   .    .     .    .   .  .   .. .    .   . .     .  .   .  .    .    ?    ,   .      .   . .       .                   .      .   .   .    .         -.    .       .     .      .            []?            ?     .           .     .     .          .  ,   . .    .    .  .  -.  , . .   [].   ,    .       .      .  .    ,          .    .          . -     .     .       [].            .         .   .    .      .   .     .        . ,  ,  .       ,  ? ,   .    .    . , -     .      .  -           -                          .  .   ,    .     , , .       .     .     .      .      .          : .  . .      -.  . -  .  ,      ,  .         ,                 .  !   -   , ,      .      ,    ,   . -.           ,   .   ,    , -   . :   : .  ,  ,     .       .     , ,  ,  .   .   . .  .         ,   .       .   ,      :  , ,      ,       ,    . ,      .  .   .       .   ,  ..    .,  .  ,         . :  :     .   , , : ,    .    ,  ,    ,  .  .     .   .   .       .             ? , !   .         .      ,  ,   ,   .      :  .     .  .       ,  ,  : ,  , , , , :         .    .     .  .   .    .     .            .    ,        ,    ,   ,   -,    ,  .    ,      :    ?     ?     ,     .       .  -    ,    .    , ? ?     .     .  ?  ,   . ?     .    , -.    ,   .  ,  .  .       ,     ,   ,     .      . ,    ,     .       -,        ,      ,          .   ,   .  .  , ,   ?    .     .  ,   ,    .   .    ?    ,      .          .   .    ,   .   , ?    .  ,    .   ,    []. ,   ,  .     .    , -,   .   ? ,    ,    .        .    ,     ,     - . ,     ,   , -.    : ! -  ,    ,     ,   . ,   ,  -            .     - []. ,        ,  :  -   ?   , .           ,     , -  .      ,     .   ,  - ,   .  ,     ?  ,   .   ,     ,        ,     .   ,   .   ,    .     ,     .  ,     ,  .    ,       .    .  ,    .          .          .  ,    .       [],    .     .    ,     . ,  . , .    .  ?    .  ,  ,    ,     . ,  ?    .    ,    . -?    .      ,  ?  , ?    ?     , .          .      ,  ?   .  , .    .    ,   .    ,    .    .   ,        .      -     .   . ,  ?     .      -   .  ,     ,  .   ,    .    .  , ?  !    .         .   ,   ,    ,    .  -    ? ,   ,    .  !     . .    ,    ,    . ,      .   , ,  ,           ,     . -,    .      .     -,    .  - :  .      .                    .  .   ,   .      .    .  .    .    .      -     .           .     .              .       .  ,       : ,   []. . .   .     ? -    .  .        .   ,   ,    :     ,      . ,   :    ,     -     ,                 .          ,   .  .   .    .   .  ,         -. .:      .          .    .  .  :  .    .  .      -    ,     .. .  .   .        ?, .    .     .   .         ,       .      .   .   .                   .      [].  .   .           ,    .       ,      .     .      .     ,     .  .   .   ?    .  .     .    .   -,    .    -.   ?   ., ,  .         ,     .           .  .     .  .  ,    ,      .     .    -? ,   .    -. ,    .          ,  .  -.    .    . -  .   . .   .      .     -.     .    .    . .          .      . .           . .   .      . , .   .  .   ?    .       ,       .   ,         .  !          ?   - .    -   :     . .      - .  .              .       ,   ?           .!     .      .  .  .        - .           -      .    .  .  .    .           .      .  .,   .     .    ,  .     .    .  , : .  ?           .         .   .     .   ,  ,   . -  .   ,   .        .      -   . ,            , .  ,      .,   . .   .      .   .  ..  .   .         .     .     . .  .         ,    .  .  - . ,    ,        .    .   .    .  .     -.  ,      .  ,    .   ,         ,   ,      .        .       .      .!   .  .  .      ,  ?    .       ?           -    []. .               .  . , .     -       - .  []     .   [].      -.   -    .      ,    [].      .            .     ,  ,    .            .    .     ,     ,     .        .   .  .     .  ,         .    .     .  .      ., .   .   -. . , .    [].        . ..    : .   .  ,       .   .    -  .    -.   .  .    .  .   .  .   .   . . . .   . ?  .   .      .  ?  . ,   . .   .  . .       ,   .  .     [].     ?    .    .     . .  :  .     . ,    .  .   .  !        .      .   .     ,  , ,  ,  .   ? .   .   .  . , .    . , .   ? , .  . . . ?.  .  .   .                       . .! []  , -  :     ,   ,     [].         . ,        ,    ,      .                    []. ,   ,    .  ,   ,  ,   .           .  ,    .     .      . ,   ,       :  : . .    [],    ,         .       [],      ,         ?     ..   .          .      []  ,       .     .  [],   ..                , , [].  :    : . , [],  ,    .      []     .     ,    [].  []    :     .    ,    : , :   .     ,  [].      ,   .   .  .   ..   .    ,      ,      ,         ,  ,    [],  ,    .     ,       ,   ,            [].     .     ,  ,  [].         ,  .       [].  ,         ,   .        . ..    ,    - . -,  ,  , !    ,      .       .  ,    ,     .            .  ,      .  . ,    . ,  ,  ,  . ,       .    .    .   ., ,     , .., ,  ,   , ..,  ,       .      ,     .   -,  ,      ,  ,    .      . ..       .            ...[],  ! []! , , ,   ,     .    , ,   .        , ,   .    ,   ,   ,             , ,      ,    .  , ,   :  ,      ,   ,     .    ,   ,       []?    !     .      .     :    .   ,        .  ,     ,        ,       .     ,      [][]. ,   ,    .   ,   .  ?      []. , ,        .        .        . ,   ,    [].  ,     .      ,    ., , .  . .     .  . ,    [].   ,      ,      .  ,   ,        -    [].       ,   .       ,  .        ,     ,    ,    [].          . ,   ,        ,       [].      []. :   ,     -[], ,     .  ,      , ,  .    .        .     []     :   , .     ,    .    [],   .  . ,  , ,   .   ,  ,      .-  .      [],   .      [],        .         [].      .      [].       ,  [].,    ,    .    ,          .   .   ,       ,        .  ,      , ,      []., , , ![]   : , .      ?       .  ,         .       ,      .    ,   []   ,   ?   ?    ,  , . .  ,    ,   ,    .        . ,   ,      .  ,     ,       []. .    .   .       -.        .    ,   ,     .     []. .   ,   ![]  .    ,        ,   ,   .   ,  ,    [],     ,     ,    ,  ,    .       [],  ,         ,     :,     ,   .    ,   ,   ,      ,  ,    ,        .   ,   ,    ,      []     ,         (   ,      ),    ,  ,  ,             :            ,  ,  ?        ,    ., ,  ?[]     .    .            ,   ?           ,     [].  :  ,    .         .        .    ,  ,, , -[] , ,   ,    ,   ?,  ,   .  . !         ,  .  .    ?,  . ? ?  .  ?   .    ..     [].  -.   ., .  .   .    .  ,   .? --![] , [],  ,    ,    .,       .,     .,   . ...   .      ?     .         .     ,   ,    .  ,   ,        .         .     .    .     ,    ,      .   . .  . ,    ,  ,    ,   .  .  .        .  ,    ,   ,      ,  . !    .     .   ,    .  ,   -, , , , . ,     ,       . , ,     ? ,   ,         [].        ,  ( ![]),   [],       ,   .    ,        []        .  -  ?       .  ,    ,    .        ,  ,  ,  ,      [],  .       [],   ,      .      ,     ,     [].      [],     ,       ,       ,   ,    .  ,   ,       .      ?      [].   ,     ,  [],   ,           ?:   ,    .   ,   ,   .  ,  ,      .   ?   ,   .       ,       .,   [].     ,     [].  [],     , ,  [],     [],       ,      ,   .  ? ?!  ,       ,       .        :      [].: ,    .            .  ,    .   ?   . ,  ?      .       ?   []. ?    .    ?      .  ,   . .   [].     .   .   .       -  .    ,   ,    ,     ,  , .  , ,     ,    , ,   .  ., . .       ,      .   ,   .    .    .  ,  ,   .    ,  ,  , .   ,    . ,     ,       -.   ,          [].     .        ,    , .  .     ,       .    .    .  [].   ?   ,        -. ,       ..   .       .       . ,   ?    . ,  , ,   , .   ,     ?    :         .   ?  ,     .   .     .          ?  ,       ?  ,   ?        .     ,      .    ,    .     .   ?  ?   ,       .   ?      . ,    [].. [].     []..      .  ,  ,   , .           [] , .   ,   . ,    .  ,   .   .  .  .  .       .     ? ,  .    -  [].,    .   .  .  ,  -. ,   :  ,     .   -,         [], ,  ,  : ,   ,    ?   .   ?      []?   ,   ,       .  . []    , ,      .   ,     . ,  ,     ,  ,  ,  -.     .   -    ,   ,  ,    ,        ,    ,   .  . ,     .      ,   ,   . .    :  ,    ,       ,                 ,    ,     [].  ,   ,  ,   .  ,  ,   .      .       . .      . :       : ,      ,    . ,    ,        .      ,  ,     . ,    .     [].     .       ,    ?    .    ,     , ,    .   ,    ,  , ,           ,    .     .      .   [].      ,  [].    :  ,     ,    .   :      ,    ,    .  .    ,   -  . .     [].  [],     .  ,       []?   ,         ,       -,            .   ,           , ,     ,          ,           .    , ,   ,     [],   ,   ,  ,   ,  , , ,   . ,  ,   , ,  ,     ,  ,    ,    .           []. -,      .      . ,       ,       ,  .  .    .    .  ,   ,     .    .    ,   ,         .   ,    [],   .  ,    -.    ,   ,       . .    ,         , , ,   ,   ,       .    ,    ,    . ,    []?   , , . , ,    , .         ,     .    ,  -    . :   .     [].       [].     .   ,  ?   : ..  ;    .  ,  []:   -[]. ,   ,  .   ?   .       ?[]    ,   ,       .   ?      ,    ,   ? ,   ,   .   ,   [].   ,   :   .  :        . ,    ,      ?   [],    .    []  ,     , ,        ,   .    .    ,    ,  .             [].  -   .  ,           .        -    .       :         .,             [].     ,  .   ,       ,        ?      ,    .,  ,         ,     .        .    , ?     ?    ,   .      ,     .  ,      ,        [].      [],   ,     [],        , -  ,     ?        [],     ,     ".    ?       .    ,       (,  ),                   ,         .     .   ,   .     ,    [][].     ,       .     ,         ,   ,       .             . .       .       ,      .  ,    ,   ,     ,            .   ,      ,    ,       ,         .     (   )    -  , - .  , ,    ,    [],    ,   []          [],      .  ,    ,   ,     ,  ,   .       ,    ,     ,      ,   ,   ,   .   [].  ,   ,    ,   ,  ,     ,    , ,  . !      .  ,  ![] .      :        ,   .  .   ,      ?     .,     ,     .    .   ,    []. : , ,  [].,                 .       ,   ,             ,     ,    ,   ,                              [].    [].  .  . , ! , ,   . ,  ,   -.      .  ,               .     . ,       .    . ?   .   ,  -   .        . , !    , .     ,    [].    .   ,   .     ?        .           .    ,    .     ?   ,    ,       .   ,           .  ,     . ,        ?  ,  []     .        ,        .       ,    ,    .   ..,   ,       , ,     .   ,   ?   -.  ?   ,  . ..: ,  []? -, , ,    ,       .  , , ,  ,   ,  ,  ,  , ,      ,     . , ,   .  .         . .   [].    .       .   ? ,  .  .    []..       ,   ,    [],   , , .   [].   .    .   . ,    []. ,   ..   .     , ,    .  ,    ?   -.  ,     ,      .      .          . ,  ,  ,     .    ,    . !   .   ! ! !          ,  :    ,   ,        []. : .    ?  ?  .  .    ?       .!  , ,  -. ,  !    !             :     [],  ,    ,   ,   ,      .        , ,   ,     ,      .          ,   ,  ,   ,          . :     ,  ,                                . .        .      ,  ,   .   ,        .       ,   . !   .       .   ,  ,      ,   . -, !   . [],   ,   ,         --.     , [].   .       ,   .   ![]   .,    .    .      [].  ,   ,  .     ,    .   []            -,   ?    , ,   ,      .              . --.  ,  ?   , ,  , ,  ,  , , , :  ? ,  !     , .  ,   ,   ,    ,   , , ,     .   ?  ?  ?.  , .  , ,     .     ,  ,  .    .  ?,        ,    ,   ,       ,         . .   !    . ,   .   ?  []? .   : ,   ,   .     ,      .  ,      .       . ,  ,   [].    .   .    . ,  ,     [].  ,  ,        .  . ,   !   ,    .     ,        .     .      ( - )     ,    []. ,  ,   ,           ,  ,    ,      ,      .      ,   ,        - .   . ,     [],     . ,    ,   ,    , , ,  ,  .      [],        ,   ,    .  []         .                  .     []  ,   ,      ,       ,    ,      ,     .  ,    [],      -  -:       .        : ![]    ,   [],      ,    ,   . -.   .     . ?  ?[]-  .       [],       . ,    ,  : ,    ![]   -[]      [],     -.    ,              ?, []. .  ,  ,       -[]. ,    [].    []. .     .  . .   .   ,   ,   .        .     ?     . ,      .   ,  .       ,   [].,     .   ,     ,   ,   ,    [].      .      . ,  ,   ,                []   ,    .  , ,   ,     ,   -.  -      .    :     ,   ,   .   ,  ,   .       .    .     ,  ,   ,  .    ,         ,    ,            ,   ,     ,   ,    .         :     ,     ,      ,  ,   ,    ,      ,    ,   , [],    ,   [],     .  ,  .   ,        , ,   ,        [].   .       ,      .   .  :   []., ,   .,  ,   .  .    ,   .    ,:        ,       ,   ,  ,      ,   . ,     ( ,   )   ,    ,   ,[][]..!          ,    ,  , ,  ,       .    ,   .     ,    ,    .      ,   ,       .         ,         ? , ,  ,  ,    ,  ,       .      [],       .     .   ,     ,  .   [],    ,   , -    ,   ,       ,     ,        .          (   ,  )       .    ,    ?      .       ,   [],     .      []. ,     ,   []!  ?   .   [],  .  .   : ., - !      .     ,       ,   .      :     ,       []. !.       ,      .    :       []. ,     ,   . ?      ,      ?     ,   .        .     ,        ,        .     ,    []        ,    ,  ,  .         -         []      [].            []   ?    ,      .       ,    ,  [],  ,   ,    , ,   ,    ;           [],   .          .          [].     []      .       []    ,   ,      ,   .       .     ,    [],  ,   ,    -              . ,     .     - -. , , , []. ,    ,     .    [] ,    . [].   ,   ,          .  [],     .     ..            []  ,      [],    ,   .    .  !  ![]     []!    !   .  [],  , , ,          ,            ,     .           .  , ,     ,        ,  ,  ,  ,  .,    [],       .      .    ,        ( ,   [],   []),      [].        []     .  ,     ,       ,     ,        ,       ,     .      []    ,   ,  ,   ,   [].   ,     .      ,     ,  .   ?[]    .    .   ,      ,        ,  . ![]  .        []     , ,  ,   :  [],     ,         ,   ,        .         (     -       ;    ,     )  ,     .  ,    ,    ,   , ,    ,             ,     [].      .  :  . ,  , ,    .   ,    [].      .      ,         [].  ,  .      ,  ?   ,         .      .          .,   . ,    [],  []. ,        [].      ,   [].     .  , ,     - . ?  ,    , .   [].    ,     [],       ,     ,   -  []. ?    . .          ,      . ,   .     . ,    .   , . ,   ,   ,    .        [].     ,  ,       ,     ,       [],      ,         ,    ,    ,   ,   . .       .       [].   ,         . [],  ,     ,  ,     .        .    ,      [].    ,     [],       ,  ,   ,  ,   ,   ,   .  , . ,   [],    ,     . ,      .      ,           ?   ,  ?. .   .     .. . . [].    ?       ,    ,       ,      .   ,   , -, ,     ,   ,    ,   -[]. ,   ,  ; ,  ,   ,  .   :      ,      ,     .      --[].     ?   .  ?    ?  .  ,      [], ,        .  [],         ,  . :  ,    ,   ,    ,    ,  ?  []   -           ,       , ,     ,          ,   ,    , ,   ,     [],  ,    ,   []. ,  ,    .     ,    .. .  .   ,     .  -.  .      . -! ! ,  []!   .     .    ,   ,         [].          [].   -         . ,  ,   .     ,  ,       .   ,      ,   ,   [],   .        ,      .  ,    .- ,   ,   ,  , . . . . . . .. . . . , ..     , , , .       ,                                         . ,    ,    .               .. !   ?[]. , ,    .  ,       , ,   ..  (, ).     [].     ,  , , -[]     ,     .   ,            ,       ..  ,     .   ,  ,  . ( ).  ,     [] ().    ,  , [],   ,    ,  ,            -   .       ,   .    [],     ,   ,    ,    ,        , [],   ,       [].   ?       ,     , ,   ,   .,   [],  ,      .      , ,   ,       , ,    ,   .     ,    ,  ,         ,   []    .  .  .   ,     ,   .   .,     [].  , .    ?  . .  [].    ? -,   . ..:  . :  .      ..[].     ,  ?   -.  -  ?   ,   .      [].   ?    , , .[],  .  .       .   .  .    .     ,    .      .   ,      .,   . []. -.  .  ? -  ,  .   . . .  []. ,   , . ,   [].  .      :   ,    , ,     .   ,    .   .      , ,  .       -,     ,   .  -. , , .    .    ,   ,          ,  ,         ,  ,    ?          .   :  !   [] ,  ! -!  -    -  - .    .   ,   .  ,         . ,    ? ,      [],     ,   ,   ,    .     ,  ..  []?  .  []. ,  ,      . , .   .  .  ,  . .   ..    ,  .   []..  ,       ,       .      ,   ? ,  , ,     (  ?),    ,    . -,  ,   -.          ,  -    .      ,      ,   [].      ,   ,           ?    ,    .    ,           .  -?     .        [],    . ?   ,   .     -, -, -   ,     ,    ,    : ,    [].  ,   ,   ,  ,        ,     ,         [].       ,   , , , , , [].   ,      ,     ,   ,   [].  -     ,    ,          [].      . ,        ,     .      ,  ,     [],         .     .      .        ,  ,     ,       ,  ,  ,          ,    . ,       .  ,    .      .     [].  ,   .            .   .  ,      .      .      , ,  ,   .      ,    ,     ,   . -! -!     .   !     ![]    . , !   !     .    ,     -. (  -?)       [].    [],   ,   .       ,      ,       ,       ,  .     ,       [].  .  .   -  -.  -   :  ,   .                ,        ,      ,      .    ,    :     , []  -   [] ,     ,    .  .       ,        . :      ,   ,    .      ,       [].     ,    .     ,  , , , , , , ,   ,      .  [],     ,     (    ,      ),   ,        , -,   ,        ,     ,        ,     ,    [],   ,       , -,      . !    .  !  ,         .  ?   .     .  -    .      .    [],    ,  ,     , ,  .   - .    ,  ,    ,  [], .   ,  ,   ,         .   ,       .        ,      .  -    ? ,    .      ?    .       , ,    ,   [].   .   ,   ,    ,     -   ,        .  ,     - ,      .  [],  ,      ,      ,      .  ,           ,      .       .      ., ,   [].  ,        ?   ? [].     ?  .      ,    [].       .   ,        ..      .     ..   ,   ,      .  , ,  , , . ,     :           -[],         [],     , -  ,    .  . , . ,    []., .      . , , ,       . .   .  .    ,    .   [].  ,     .     .  ,   ,       .   . . ,   .    ?  .   [].          . . .  :    .    ., ,    ,   , , , ,      ,   .   ?  ?  ?   .   .              .:    ?       -: , , ,              ,    :  ..?    ?   ? ?? :  [].[] , ,     ,   : [],  ,   ?   : ,     !     [].     -    ,   [].   ,  .,       [].  !        [].  .:            [].  :       [].      ?    ? . , .     (   )   , [],     [].        -    []    ,  , :        ,      . ,   ,     ,     , ,  .    ,     []. .   .   ,   .  .   ,    :       ,    .   ,    .     .     ,   ,  - ,        [].  ,    !     ,          .      ?  ,       :   ,         [].  .    .    !  []!    .   ,  .       . ,   .      :   ,    (    )       :  ,    .   .  , :  :  ( ) ( )     (  )  ()    (   ).   , ,           ,  : ,    -,   []    ,    ,    ,    !    ,   ,    -  .   ,  -  ,  ..  . ,  ?      ,      .  ?         .     ,   .   .   ,  .   ,    ..    ,    [].   .  , .     .   .  .    .       ..  .  ,       .      ?      .  ,   []. ,    .   . []..     [].   .  , ,  ,   .  .  . .    []  -.   .        ,        . .   , :    . ![]      ! [] [],   , ..,     ,       .   .      . ,   ? . .     [].      [].   . .    ,  .  ,  ,     . ,      ,  - .                , ..        , ,        .    -.        ,             ,      []:      ,     .         .    ,     ,        , ..  ,  .  ,  ?     .      .    ,      ? ?        .     ?   .  , ,    .   , ,  . ,   ,    []   .  :  .   .         , ..,  ,     .         , .. ,    .  ,  .           ,    .   , .  ,        .      ,           . !           ?     .  . , ,   ,   .    .  ,      . ,    ,   ?,  ., ,   [].   -[].    -   -.:    .  , .      ? -. ,   .    ?  .  ? . [].    ?    .,      . ,     ,          -   -. ,      , ,   .,    , : , ! -, ,     ,    .                -  .   , ,        -.  .,    .,  ,  -    ,   ,    ,      ,    ,    ,      -.    ? , , ,      ,     .      .   ?  .    ,     .    .   !      ?   .    --,      .  ..,  ,  (..)[]  .     . -, .    .  , , . [].    ,  .         .,        .,   . -              .       .    .        .   , -.       .       . ,      .   [],       .    -    .     -,      ,     .         ,        .     ,           -.       .       ,  .      [].      ,         .       .     ..,   ,   ,     . ,  ,   ,     .   ,  ,      , ,   ,   .  -      ,           ,    ,        .            ,    ,               ,   .     , ..,     ,    -,   ,   . ,   ,       ,    ,    -.       ,   ,           -.     ,            ,   ,            ,     .   ,  ,    ,     ,      .             .     .  .   ,    ,  -    .  ,   .   -      .      ,     ,       ,   -, -.      .    ,              . ,   ,            .        ,  -     .     ,     .        .   ,          ,  , ,      ,    ,   ,        ,       ,  ,   ,    ,   [].        ,  ,  .           .      ,    ,         , ..   ,        ,    ,      ,         .    ,     [],    [],    .     ,    (..)    , ,   , ,        .     ,  .     ,      ,   ,    .  -    ,      ,   .   .         .      [].     -    -    .  ,     ,  ,    ,      .    ,   ,   ,   . ,  ,       []    ,            [],   ,   . ,  ,      , ,   ,   ,   ,   ,      ,  .   ?   ,  ,    ,        ,       [],    ?     ,      ,   .     ,  ,  ,   .      ,    , ,     ,    ,     .  ,  ,    .      .                 ,      .     ,   ,     .  .        ,   ,    .       ,    . []  .     . ,   ,      .          .     ,  ,    ,   ,      .           .          .    . [].       .    .          .   [].   ,     ,   , ,     []   :    :      [].         ,         .     ;             .         . :     :       [].           ,     .  ,    ,   ,      .   ,         .     ,     ,     ,    .           . ,    ,     ,   ,   . ,   ,      .  ,  . ,    .   ,   .         ,          -. ,  ?   .      ,  ,  , .      ,           -.   ,       ,   :        ,     ,   :   [].,    ..  ,     ,  .  ,            .   ,      ,   ,      .     :     ,    ,   ,       .     , ,        :    .        -   .      .          .   ,   , ,   ,        .       .    .   ,         :  , .         .   ?   .     ,       ,   .     ,   .      ,       .    ?   .  .        .       !   .     , .    ?   . ,   .  :  , ,  ?,       , :    ?     .  ,   .   ?   .   ,   .   . !      : -  !         . ,   ,  ,        : ,    .   ?   ,   .     ,  :  ,    .    ,  : ! ,   !,  ,  ,  ,    ,   ,  , ,     ,   ,     ,        .         .     ,     ,   .    ,   . , ,   ,    . ,    ,    .      , ,    ,       .        ,   ,  , , , ,    ,   , ......,    ,      -,   .      ,         ,      .      ?  ?    -      . , .   ?  ,    .     .    .    , ?         .   , ?   .    . , .  , .       .      ?   .    .      .  .       .  ?    .    ,    ,   ,   , . , ,   .,        .        ,        .       , ?    . ![]   .         [].     ,   ,   . .        .       ,   ,   ,   .      ,    ,      .          .  .         , . ,   [].  [],   ,   ,       . ,       .  ,    [].    ,  ,            .  [],   ,     . ,  , ?[]   .      .  .               . ,       .       . , []. , ,   ,    .   [].  ?    .  , ?   ![] ,       ,          .   ,       ,      .        [],     -,         .    .      ?    -   .    ,  ,      : .    :   .    ,   ,      ,      [], ,  .....,   ,  .         [],  ,           .     .   ?   ,    . ,      .    ,        .    .      -      .  , ,       .      . . , . , . , .     .   , ,     . , . ,     ,    .   . , .    .   . :  ,   .     .  ! !     ,  .,  .  ,      . , ., .     .       .  ?    .   ,  ?   [],    ,   . ,  , , !    ,       .   . ,   .            .              .  !      . , ,      .             ,     []       .        .       - .       ,        ,        -. ,       ? ,  .    -,    ,      .     -[].  ,    .   , .     ,   ,  , ,       , ,    .   ,   .  ,       .       .     ,              .          .   ,  ,   .            ,    .  ,  .   .  ? , .  ,  .   .    , ,    .            .   ..      ,            , , [].    ,    .   ., .    : , .   .   ,     [].    , -.         .   ,      ,   ...     . , !   .         ,         .   ?  ,    ,   ,    ,  ,      .     . ? ,    .    ,  [].     ,  .,    ,     .     ,      ,  : -, !   ..  : , , .   ?   ? ,  .-.     ,     ,    . -!   .   !    ,    ...  ,    ,                             -!  !      ,       . ?   .  ,    .   , .   .         .     ,    ,     .  ,   ,   , ,              ,   ,  ,                 ,   ,    ,  . ?   .  , ,   ,   :  . .  , ?        .  ,     , .  ,  ,  ,       . ?    .        ,    , ,   : .   .      ,   ,     .     . ,    .   ,      ,   . ,   ,    .          , .     , ?   . , ,   .    .         -.  ,    .  ,   .     . ?   .      .  -  ,         ,  .    -  - ,   ,   .         ,  -   ,       . ,      ,   ,    ,   .   ,  -     ,    .  ,   .        ,    -.  ,   ,  .         .       ?        ,    .  ,   .    ? ,   .      .  -          . -          ,  .    ,    -.   ,   , .       ,    -  , -  ,     .   .        -.       .    ,   . ,   ,   ,  . ",    ",   .     ,   .         -,      -    .       ,  , ,   . -  . .         ,   .  -  .           .        ,  ,     .     ,    ,     .  ,   .    .   -,     ,    ,    ,    .        ,    .       .   ?   .             -.   ,      .  ,   ,    .    -   ,       .       .     ,  ,  ,       .   .      .   ,   ,   .    ,            .  ,   ,   .           ,    ,           .        .         ,        .     , : ,    [].       .   ,     ,     .  !    ,   . - . ,        ,  :               .,   ?      .     ,       .  ,   ,     .     ,  .               :    ,  ,  ,    .  -,  ,     .     ,  . ,   -      -.  :   , ,   ?   ,   .   ,  ?   , ,   ,     . ,      .     ,    . ,  ,   .  ,   ,   .  .         .         .      ,    .    -       ,   -  .        [],   .  , . :    - ,      .           .    ,   .    - .  .       :   ,   -.   ,   ,  .     .    ,   .       .  ,    ,           .              .,    . ,  ,   .  ,  . . ,   .   ? .  . ,  .    . . .,     .   .   :  . ,    .  . ,  :    ,    ,           .  !  !.   .  .        ,           ..  .   .  ,     ,        .      ,         .       ,       .    :      ,   .      ;   .   ,  .    (  !  ! ).   .    (   !). ! ! ,   !    !! !   ,     ,    -   ,   ,        ,  ,   ,                             [].      ,   .           .         .      ,    ,       .   .   ,  :    .  ,    . " ",   ,   .   .        , ,        . ,   ,      ,   .   .   . .   .     .  ,  ?    .     : ! ,    ,   .    [] .., .., .  ..,   ,     . ,   ,    -.     .   ,   .  ,    !    .  , ,    , ,   ?  !  .  ,     ,   .  , ,   ,      .  ,    ?      ,       . , ,   .     .       .   ?   .    ?    .           . ,   -,   ,    .     ?    ,   . ,   , ,  ,  -.   ,   .      -[]? ,    ,      .        ? -.   .    - ,   .   ,   ,   .    - . ,  ,     .   ,    , ?        ,     .  !  ,       .    !      .  ,     . ,  .   [].    .         .  ,   ?   , .       . !    !    ,   .,  ,     ,  : !     . -,   .   . ,     .    , ,   .      ,    .        ,    []. ,  ,    .          ,    .     .      -  ?   .    . ,      .      -    .      .  ,      . ,    ,    .         - .    .        . -    ,   .   ,     ,   .  . ,  ,      ,    . !   ! ,  ,   !,  ,     !    ! ,        ,      -,      -,   .   .  ,  ? , .  ,       ,  .   ?  .  . , .     .     . ,       ,  .   , . , .         []. , !   .   . ,     .   .    ,  ? .   .       ,      .     ,       ,      ,  .  ?   .   ?  .   .   ,       .  ,    .  .  ,     ,     ? ,    ,   .  ,    ?  .,  . ,  , ,   ,    .,      .    [].     .  . , !    .   ?   ,  , ,  . ,      ,        .  ,  .    -.   ,      .        .    .   -     -.   ,   ,    ,   ,    . !      . -.  [].  ,  ,         , . ,  ,   ,     .       ,     ,   ,  ,  ,     .  .       .   , .  .    .   ,   ,        .     , ? ? , .   ..      . - .   . !         .    .            .      [].   .     ,   -     ..    ,   ?  ,     ,  .       .    . ,   .  .  . .        -,         .            ,    .    . -        .   .    ,         ,      ,      .    -. [].          [].       ,    .   .    .     . -        [].    .   .  .     .   ,      [],  . ,     .      [].   .     .        .  .    [].      ,     -   ,  . .  .  ,  . !    ! -  !  !  !      ,        .       .        .        ,   ,  ,   - .      ,  ,  ,   .        [].  , ,   ,    .    ,       . ,    ,      . ,    .  , ,   ,        .       ,         .     .         ?   : .   .    ,      . ,   ,     --,     ,    ,    . ,   ,   ,  .   . !     ,  [].     .   .  ?    , ,      ,  .   ,    .     .     ,  .   ,   .  !   . .,  . , ,  []. , .   ,   [].   -,       .           ,       .          .         .      .          .    ,   .     . .  .      [].    .       ,    . ,  ,  []. ,    ,    ,   .  ,    ?     [].   .   .  :  .     ?      .       .    .    .  ,    :     !   ! ! [].  ?       ,     .  ,     ,   . , ,       .    , ?,     .   .   .    ?   . ,  ,   []. , ,   ,      .     .     ,   ,       ,   .  .    ?   .      ,      .     -?    .       ? ,   .   .         . ,    .    ?   .   -? ,     .  .  . ,   .  ,   . ,         .   ,     .   ,   .   .  . .  . .   .      ,   .   -  ,  , .   .. .  .! ! , !    .   ?   ,  , ,  .        .  ,   ,    []. ,  ?    .  ,    .    , ,  ,     ,    .  ,    .     ?  ,    .       . ,   ?    .  , ,    .     .       .           ,     .      .          .       . , ,  , ,  .    !   -. -!          . !   .   ,  .                   .     ,      .    : -      . -, ,    .           . ,     ,   :      ,   ? -?     .     ,       ,       . ,        ,         , : ,   , ,       .    ,   ,    .  ,    .      , ?    .     ,  , -  ,     -.    ,      ,   . -!   .   !    ,  . , ?    .    ? ?    . ,       .  .        ,       ,   [],    ,       ,     . ,      ,   ,   . -     ,   .     ,       .        .  ,  ..          [],     ,        , ,   .   ,    ,       .       ,    .   ,  ,    ,      ,   .    ?   .        ? ,    . ,           ,   ,    .       .     . -, .   ? , ,    .     . , ,  -  .    ?     ,    ,       ,    .      ,    .  ,  ,  ,    ,          .     ,    ,      -.   .   ,     .    ,        --.  ,       ,     . -,    ,  .         .        ,      .  ?  ,     .  ,    ,      -.    , ,        . , ,    -. -, ,     ,     .    ,      .  ,    ,    .   ,    .   ,    .  ,  ,    .     .     ,  [],    .   -.     ,    ,      .  ,    ,      .          [],       .        ,              ,          . ,        ,       .  ,      .   ,   -,      .     ,        ,       .      ,     ,     .        .  ,   ,    ,      .      .        ,           .      ?      ,     .   ,     ,     .    ,   ,       .   ,  ,  -  ,    ,  ,   ,   -   ,        [].   ,    .       . ,   ,   ,     ,     ,      .    ?     .         . ,  !    .  ,  , ,     ! -! --! !            . ,  ,      .   ,     , , , .        .      ,         ,        .  .    ,    .      .     .  ?    . ,   .      .    ,  ,     -,       . ,  ,        . ,      .    ?    ,     . -  - ,        .     ,  ,   ,  :  .    .     ,     ,         .   ?   ,    . ,   .    ,  ,   .             ,     .  -        ,          .   -,    .   -,   .      ,   - .  ,    :   ,      . ,       .    .   ,   .         ,   . ,   -, , :          .     ,   ,      .    -.  ,    -  ,   ,       .    ,      .      .         .   ,   ,    [].         .  , ,    ,    ,        [].    .     .    ,   ,  ,  ,  .         .  ,    -  .    ,           []. ,     ,    .          ,   ,    .  ,      ,   , .  ,       .  -     ?             .            .        .  ,     , .      - .   ,   ,   .       ,   ,   .           . ,     ,    .       . ,   , ,        ,   ,  --,  ,         ,      .   -,   .        ,     ,          ,  ,   -. ,  ,         .            ,       -,     .   []  ,    ,    -,      .     .   ,  :  [].  ,   -,    .      , ,  , ,          ,    .        .   ,    !     .    ,  ,  !       ,       ,        ,  ,      ,   -.                  ,  ,    ,     ,      .    ,   ,      .  . -     ,  .  ,    ,   ,  .          .  ,  ,    ,  ,   ,  ,    ,  [].  ,    ,   .    ,   . -   .   ,   . ,     .  ?   . ,   , .  ,     ,  .  ,   ,        ,  .         .    ,             .       .         [].     ,     , .     ,    ,   ,         ,     . -     ,       ,      ,   -   - ,    .     .    -,      .     ,     . ,     ,   .     .    ,   .    . ,  ,    ?   ,       .             .    ,   ,   ,      ,  .  ,     ,    ,   .   ,     ,    ,    .    , ,   .    ?   ,   ,       ,    ,        ,         .     .   .  .   .   ,      .    ,    ,   ,      -  . .    ,  .  ,     ,            . ,  [],             -.       ,       ,  .     -,   ,        .        -     .   []   ,     ,     . -          ,        ,     ,   -      ..,    -,     ,          ,   ,     ,     .      ,    ,   ,     .   ,     .,  ,    ,    ,   ,  ,     ,           .      -,      [],        .   ,       ,    ,   .  -   ,       ,    ,   .        .       .,  ,      ,          ,  ,  .      ,     ,    .           ,  [],          ,    ,    -  ,      ,      ,              ,  -  -.      ,   ,       ,     -  - .   ,  ,     ,            , ,   ,  ,  []. .    -,         .  , ,       ,             .  ,   ,      ,        ,  ,    ..,      ,  .    -      ,    ,   ,     ,      ,         .  -  ,      ,     ,   .   ,     ,      -,         ,         .,         [],        -   .     ,   . ,         .  ,  ,   ,  .     , ,   .,           , ....,        .            .,    .,  - ,  .          ,         -         .   -         - ,   ,   ,     .  ,    ,     ,              .   -,      ,    ,   ,   -.     , ,     :    ,  ..   ,,    ,  ..           .., ., .., ., .., .., ., .  ..  .    ,               ..[]   - -.   -,    ,         .        -,       ,      ,        ,     .    . -,           ,        -.       .   -    ,   ,     - .     []   ,      ,       .   -  ,   ,    ,    ,      -  -    [].  -  -          ,     ,      , ,  ,   []        , -,   ,       ,   , ,  , . []     . .,     . .!    .   .. , ,  .  .    ,   ,  ., : .  ,    ?    .  , , .   ..  . !   . , ! ,  . .  .   . .  .. .  .  .   ..  !   . . .  , ! . .  .   . ! ! .! ,   ..  .   ..  . . ! .  . . , ! .! !. . .   .      .    : , .  . ..   .!  , , , .  ?        .:  .  . --.  ?  -     .    .. .  , , .   . -.   . !  ,   .  ..  .    . ,     .!    . . -.   .  .        . . .  -,   ,    .  ! ,  !  , . .  .        . !    -. .      . -.   .     .! !   ?    ?  ?. . . ,     .  .  ..!  ,       ,   ,    - ,   .   ?    .   ,    ,  -    .[]   ,    .  ,    : -,  ,  ! -? ?     .   ,      ,    .   . -, .      ,    ,       .  : !  ! :  !      !,   .   ,           .  ,    ,  ,  .         .   ,   ,    ..    ,     ,   ,      ,       ,  .  ,    ,    .  ,    ,        .    ,  ,  .       ,      ,   , .   ?       .  ,    ,    .  , ?    :       ,       .  ,    ,           ..   ,   :    .       ,    .  ,  .   ,    .    ,      .     ,   ,  ,   .     ,    , ,   ,    .,        ,   ,   ,  , . ,   ?     . ,    ,   ,  .         ? , ,        ,               . ,    ,   .    ,    .     ,         ,  ,   .           -  . ,   ,   : ,  ,     ! , ,   ,    .    ,     .  ,  !   .   ,  !   . ?     :  ,  ?   .   ,  ,      ,  : ,    ,   !   ! ,   ,   .              . ,   ,    ,       .  -! -!       .       ,      .   !  , ,  .   ,     ?      : ,      !    :  .      ?   ,  .     .          .  ,   ,   .  ,      ?  .   .  . .     . ,  .   .      :  .     .  .  ..  ,       , , , .  ,   ,     , , ,    ,    . , , . , -, ,   .      ,    ,     .  ,   ,         .  , ,     , ,     ,     ,    , , , :  ! -    !   !     ,   ,    , , .    !   .   ,    ,   ,  ,          ,  , -, -, -, --.    . ,  ,  .   , ,      ,     .  (-!), ,   (-!),    .  ,  !  !        .       .   . ,  !    .     !    (,  !),   .    ,   [],   .       ,    .    .      .   . .  .  ,  .    .  . .   ? , ..  . .        . , .  .  .       .        . ,       . .   . ,   ,  .  .  ? -.  ,       .  ,    .        , ?    . .      ,     ,    .     .     . , ,   .   - ,     .  .  , ,   ,  -  .     ,       ,     : [].  , ,   ,     .        ?  ,   ,     . ,    ,         .. ,    .     ,     ,  .        .      -      .  .        .  ,   ,        ,   .      . , ,     . -. ..     ,   ,   , []. . . . .    . .    , : , ,   ![]     ?   .  .     . -,      .   . .  .   . .  .  .    ,    .   .      ? .  :  ,     ,    ? .    ,       ,    : ,   .  , ,  ,  .       ,  .  -,    ?   ,    .    .     :    ,    .  . ,    .   .   ,  ,    ,   ,    : -  -- .  --  : -  -    -  -- .  .      ,    .   : ,  !  , !          .      .    ?    .     .  ?    ?   .     ? ,   .[]. ,  ,   ,   . ,   .      .  ,       .     ?.           ,   .         [].      .   ,  ,    .        .    ,      ,         ,       .          ,    ,   .    . .  .      ,   .  .     .  ,   .   ,    ,       .        .   ?  ,  ?   .  ,  .  ,      .   ?    .      .       ,    .  ,  .  ,   ,  .       ,   ,  -.  .      .     ,   . ,  (?)    (?),     (!) .   ( ,      )  ,   ,  ,  ,     ,    .                     .      ?        . -      .   ?  .    .  .     ,     .  ,   .      .  - .  .     ,   ,  ,    .   .  . .,    ,       .  . .   .  .  . .    , ,    . ,      .  .    .     ..        ?   .  .      .   ,   .    ,   ,   .  .    ,   . ?  ,    ,   ,    .    .             , ,  ,   ,   , ,    :   []    , :   .  , -   ,   .   ,    ,  ,      , ,   ,       .          .   ,   ,  ,  .,    .,    ,  .   ,    .      ?   .  :      ,   []. ,  .     , ,   .,  ,  .  , , :  -[].   , ,  ,  . .    : .  , , ,     ,    .      ,   ,    .          .    .      ,          ,  ,  .  .    ?  ?  , ,      .   ? .   .   .        . .     .     ?  .  ..  ? ?     .  .,  ? ,    .   ?  .    . ,     .  , ,    ..   .    . ,  .    ,      ,    - ,  . ! !        .  !          .    , ?    .,         ,     (    ,   , ?),   :  ,  .   .    .  ,   .     .  . -,   ,     ,   ,   .  ,    ,   .    ,    , , .    , .   .    ,    ,     , ,    ,     . .  . .      (     ),    .  .     ,    .  .  .  ,  ,    , ,  .     []. .  .   ?    .  ?.,    , ,   ,    . -   ,   .  ,        , ,   . ,   ,     ,      .  .  .  , ?   ? ,  .     .  , . , , .    -    . , ,   .     .      .    [].     . ,   ,   ,     ,   . , .     :      - ,    . -, !    .    []! !   . .  .    .  .     .    ,   ,     , .  [].  ! ! !,      . .   , , ,  . !!   ,           .  !    .   !    .   (!  ), ,   ,   .    ,   , .    .      ,    ,    ,   .    ,      ,       ,      . ,   ,        .,   .   , ! , ,    .   ,  .  ,   ,  .     .        ,      .   .   ,  ?   .  ,  .     ,     ,   ,   .  ,  ! -? ! !      ,       .      , .     .         .    ,     . -, -,      .  ,      -.     . ,  , ,   . ,   .  ?  .     . , . .    . ,   .  (  ?) .  . . ,  .   ?    .      . -, ,     .  , []., .  , ,   ,   (-    : -, )  .  , ,  .     .  , .     ,   . ,     .    ,  .,     .  ,  . .          . . . . .   [], ,    .      .  ,   ,    ,     . .  ( ?),  ( ),   ,   .  (    ,  []?)    ,      ,  ,  , ,        ,   .      ,     .          . .    ,    .        .       .  ,  -, ?      ,    .           .  .   ,  .   .   .  ,   ,   ,    .  , ,   ?         .       .     .      , .  ,    .        .    , .      ,   . .  .  . .  ,    ,   .            -  ,  -  ,     .  ?      -,        . ? ,        .  ,      , -   . ,    .   -[].  ,  ,   .       . ?  -,  , , , . ? -,    .          .   .     .  .     . , . , .    .     .   .     ?   .  . -.   ?  .      [].   , -.     .  , , ,     .  ? -,   .    , ?   , , , , .   ?     ,  , ,  .  ,  .    .     ,    ,    ,   ,  , - , ,  , , , .     .      .    ,      ,   ,   ,     , ,     ,    ,        .  ,  , .  . -[]     ,          ,  ,            ,     . .  ? .  ? -.  ,   ,     :              . ! !    .    !  ,  ,    .        .   . .            . ,       ,       ,  -  . ,   ,    .   .      ,    .  , .    [].- .        .  . ,   ,  .   .     ,   -?   ,  , . ,    .        . ,     .  .  ,   , , -, ,  ,   , -.   ,   . -, .      . -.      .   ,    .      .    - .    .           .  ,    . .   ,   .    ,  ,   .  ,      . ,  ,   !  -   ! ,    !  ,        -.    .     .  . , . .    .      . . ,   ,     ,   , .  .     ,  ,   . ,  .  .     ,  .    ,  .  ,    .   ,  .  ,   .       .   ,   .  , ,  .  - ,  .   . ,    .  .  .   ,    ,  .    ,     ,   ,      .  .   ,    .      ,          .   ,    -. ,     .  -.  . .   .    .  .     .  . .    .  .  [], .   []. . . . . -, ,   ,       ..   ,   !    .   ,   . "", ,    .      ,    ,  - .     .         . , ,   . .    ,    ,   . :  :   []   ,   ,  ,  , , ,  , .   , . ,    ,  ,           , ,   . -, ,     .  ,  .  -.   , , , , .     . -, ,   ,   .  .    ,     , ,  . , , ,    ,  ,     .   ,   ,    .     ,  ;  .       . ,  ! .   .     .    .  .  ,  .    ..       ,    .   .   ,     .   . ,  . ,  ,     .   .    . .   ,   .       . ,   .   . .   .   ,   .    , .       .   ,    .      .  .     .     .   ,     .    .    .  .    .      .  .  .  -  .     ?    . "  ".   .      : . .  .  ,    ,   ,   ,     . .  .      . -     ,          .           . .  .    ?  .   . , , .,    ,     . . ,  .  .      .   .    . ,    .   .   .  ..   .    . .   . :  .  ,     .     .    .    .  .    .  ,   ,   . ?    .   :  .   .    .  .    .      . , , , , .      , ,   .  . .  ,      . , .  .      , ,  . , .  , .   ,      .  , .   ,      ,       . ,  ,                         -   .   .      :     .   ,  ,   .  , ,  ,            .   ,     ,    . , .  . .     ,  ,    , .   .      ,   ,   ,           ,     ,          . ,  : ,   , ,    .    ,  , , ,  ,   ,      ,     .  .       .       .      .  ,   , , ,     - ,   , ,    .        .    .     ,      .   . , , .      .   .   .    ?  . . . -.         , . . . ,  ?  .    ??     ,    . -?    .!   , ,  , , .    , , ,  - .         .  !      .    .     .     .    .      .    .   ,    . .  .  ,  .     : , ,  ,  .  ,  .  ,  .  .     . , ! ! ,  ,   .? ? :  ,   . , , , ..         ,  ,    . , , , . . , ,  . .  . .   ,  . , , ,  ,  . !  .  .             .  . .    .  .   .   .     .      .  .     .      .  .  !  , ,    .        ,   , ,  .  ,    ,   ,  , ,   ,  ,    .      .  .     -          .         .               .    ,   .    .     , .   . .  .  .    .  .  .    .   .  .  .   .     .   .       .  ,  , ,  .  .  .   ? .  .                  . . . . ! , !  ,  , ,    ,  ,    ,   .   ,   ,   .    . ?          . -. --,  ! -,  !.  .  .   . ,  , . ! , ,  ,    ,   ,   ,  , ,   ,            ,  ,  , ,   , ,   , ,   , ,     ,  ,  ,             !!..  .  .  . .  ,  ,      ,  ,  . ! . , . . ! .  . , ! . , ,  ,  .  ,  ,  , ,  ,     , ,            .     , ,   ,   .     ,   ,      ,     .  ,  ,   . . . .  .  ,     , -.   ,  ,  ,   .    ,   ,    .    ,     ,    ,    ,      ,    .  ,    ,      ,  .  .    ,    ,      .    , ,     . , , .     .    .   .     . ,  , .    .., ,      .     ,   .   .   ,   ,     .                 ,                         .,    ,   ,    ,          ,   .,  , ,  ,  ,  , ,  ,  , , ,  ,  ,  ,       ,  ., . ,      .  ,    .   .  -.      . ,  ,   .  ,    ,    .     .  .  ,   ,  . .   .          .    .    .        ,   ,       , -   , , , ,  , .        ,  ,  , ,  . .     .      .    .     , ,   .   . . .   .   .  . . -,     !    .  [].  ,  ,    . . . .    .       .      .  . .     .      --.    .    , .   ? .  .   -.         .     ,   ,     .   ,   ,       .   ,    .   ,    .     , .     . ,  ,     , ,     ,       ,       , -  -,      .  .       .     .   . .  .. , . ,  . ,    ,   .  . ,  .  .      . ,  .   , - .    ,     .   .     ,   . ,   .   . .  ,  .         .    .       .     .   -  -  . . .    ,    . ,     . .,    .  -     :           .   .      .,   . .   ,     .    . .       ,        .      ,    ,   .    .   .  -   .  , , ,   .   .       .     [].  .    ,       , .      -.   . ,  - .       .         . ,         .       .         : , , ,   .      ., ,         .    .  , . .      .  ,        ,      ,  ,  , .       ,    , ,     . , ,  . ! -! . !     .     ,      .    .   .     -.  ,  :  .   :  .      . ,   ?  -  . . : .  . .              . .  ,     . ,   .      .   .   -. ,  .   .  .  .    .   .  , .  :     .   .   ?     - ,  ?   .     ? ,  , ? ,      .   . -, , .    ..    .  ,     .    . .   . .   . . ..,   ?    .   , .     .    .  ?  .  .   .     -. ,   .  .    . .   ,  .     ,    ,     ,  , ,    ,       ,     ,   ,   , ,     ,    , --,  , . ?     ,   .    ,         .   ?     . ,    .     .  ,  . :  .    :   .  . . .  . ,   .    ? . . ..   .    ?  ?   , , . ,  . . . ,   ,   . ---.   ,  .   ? .  ,    . ... ----.   . --.  . .  ,    . . .    . :  ,   .   : -   .  ,    .  .     .   -  .   .     .   . ..: -.     .  - .   ,   .    .    . .    -  ,  .    .  . .   . ,  .    .  . ..       .  .  . . !  .  .   . . . !  . .    .     ,     .   ,    .  .    .   .       . ---.     . -.  . ---.     .             . ---. .    .    .  .   . ,     .  ,     . ,      , ,   ,  ,   ,  . !   .   ,  ,    .  .     .  , ,      .   , .         .   ,  .   .     .   . ,   ,      . !  . .     ,        .  . .    ,      .  ,   ,  ,   , ,     ,   , ,  .   , , , .     ,  .   .   .    .   ,   .   . ,    .  .  .   :   .        ?    ,  ?    . .   . .    .,    .  . .   .   .  ,  .   ., ,  .  .    , , ,    .    ?      .,    ,     ..  ,   ,   ,     .        . ,     ,       .     . ,   .    ?         .       .     .   .  .  .                 ,   . :         :       ., , , , ,  ,  , ,   ,  ---.    .  : -, . ,   .        .        .   . .    ,  . ,  . : ----:   . ,   .      .  ?    .     . , .    ,  .   ,    ,     . ,  .  .     .  .     .  ,   .      ,  .   -    .  .  , , .     : .   ,  .   ,    .   .   -          .  !   ,   .  .     ,  . . .      .    ,          .    , ,   . . . . ---. --. . ,   .  .  -,   ,             . --.. " "[], ,    .  , ,    ,    .   . , ,      .  ,  . , !      .  . ,  . .  ,  , ,  , .  .   ?    ?  ?   ,    .        .  ,     . , ,  ., . -   .     ,      . ?   .    .  . . ,    . ,   . ,    ,  ,   . --.  ,    . . .  . . .   ,   .  :  .  , ,  ,   , ,  ,   ,    .  ,    .. , -.    .         .  ,  .   -    .  :  ,  .       .    .   -.   . .      . . .  . .   .     ,  ,  . -. . ,  , -. , , .,  ,  ,  ,      ,      ,    ,     ,   . . ,   .     ,     .         .      .  ,     .   ,    ?   ,   .      .    ,  -  ..  .   .     ,  ,   .  .     , , .    :   ,   .   .    ,  :  []. .    ,    .       .   ,   , []. ,    . .. ,    ,    ,   , , .  , .  .      .  .   . ,   ,      .   .  .   , ,   . .     ,    .     , ,    .   ,  .  .   , ,   .    .   .   . -.   ,   ?    . ,       .  .      .     .     . ,    .  .    . . ,  , ,  .     .    .    :   . : .. .  .     ,   .   ,   - .  ,        .  .   .  .          ,   .      . ,     .   ,   .   ..   ! .    .     ,      .  ,   ,  .    . .    .    .  , ,  .  . .   .   ?  ? ?    .. .  . .   .      .  ,   ,      , ,       .  .      .  .      .  .. ,  ,    .       ..,     ,  .          .   .    .    .    .  .   ,    .      -.    . . -  .   .  ,  ,  .   .  ,       . , .    .    . -.. .   ,  ,  ,  . .   :  ,     .  :   .   ,    ?, .    .  ,   . .    .  .   - .  . .    .      .        .     .   ,   .   :   .    -.  ,   :  .       .      .  .  ..    . ,    . ?? ? . . . .   .    ,  .  , ,  .    ,  .. . .   .    .  ,  , ,    .  ,  .  . ,  .    .       , , .   , ,     .   .   ,        (  ),       .      ,   .     ,    ,   . .   . , ! . . . .  ,  . .    ? , -  .,   ,  .        , , -   .       . -, -:   (   ,  ,  )    , , : , ,  ,  , ,  , , ,  , ,        .   .. . .  . .    .  .  .  .   .,   . ,   .   .   .   .   .   ? . , , .         , ----. , . ? . .  .  . .     . , :  .    .   ,  . -.  . .   ,  ,  .     .      . ![],  !       . ,   ,   ,  , ,  ,   ,     ,        ,  ,  ,   .. . .  ,   . ,   . ,  ,  ,  .    .    ,       , ,    ,  ,   ,  .       .  ,  .   , ,    .  ,     . , ,   - .      ,     . ,    . ,   ,  ,       ,      .  . - -,  -. -. ,       ,     ,  ,    .   ,    .    ,  .  [],    ,     .    ,        . --.  , ,    .,   ,   : , , .   . ,   , .. . . .         .  ,    . ,   .  :    :   :  :  . ,     .      .       . , ? , .,     ,  .     ,  .       .    .     .         .    .  . .    .,     .   .    -.    .   . .   .  . ,   , .  .   .. . . .. . . .   ,      ,             .     ,  ,   .,    ,   .    :    .   .    .     .  .    .  .   .   .       .     .    . ,   - ,     .   -.        .         , , .    .  -  ,    ,     ,   .  ,  ,  (     -         ),     -  -     . !     --.   --.   ?    ,    .             . , -    . . . .       .    ?   . , , , ,      ,   ,   .  ,      .    ,   .  :  .  , , !    , .  ? !    ..,   . . . . . ,    ,    . ,  ,      ,   ,     . . ,    .    .  .. . . . . . . .    .    .  .      .       . .   .   .      . , , . , ,  ,     .      . ,    .      ,    .   . .. -   .  .  , ,  , . . .  ,   , ,  , , . .. .  ,  , ,  ,   ,   ,       (     ),     (  ),  ,   ..  ,   ,  .      ,     .   -,  ,   .  ,    - ,  ?   . ..  ? .  .   .  . - !  !  ,  !!  . ? . ,  .    ,     .  .  . . .  []. . , , ,      , ,    [].  -  .    ,  . .,   ,  . --.      .  ,   .  .  ,  .    ,      .  . ,    ,  ,   . ,  !       ,    ,       .    . , .    .   ,  . .  .  .  .     .  ? , . , !    - .  .  .        .      .        .   ,      .   ?     .    .   !   ,    ,  . ,  .                          .  :  .    ..   . ,  ,    .    .   ,   .     ,   .     ,    . , .  . ,  ,   .            ,   ,     ,   ,  .  , , , ,  : ,  ,  ,     ..      .         .   .   . .  ,   . -, .     . .. ..     .    :   .                . ---.    .,     . , .      ..   .! . .   .  .  .  ,   ,   . .   .  . ..    . . -.     . ----. .   .. . [], ,    -     [],   -            . ,     ,   ,      -,    . ,  ,  .   -? ,     -   ?   ,    .       ,    ?  ,  ,     .   , ,      ,         .       ?   . ,  ,  .   , ,    ,   -       -     ,        ,          ,         ,        ,  ,  -. !   . ,  .     .    .           .      ?   . ,  .    []!     .       ,   ,    ,     .  , ,   , ,    ,    ,   ,  , ,        ,     .        , , , .    ,       .     .      .         ?   ,    , ,   , --, ,  -,   ,      ., ,   , -, ,  -,   ,  ,   ,      ,          ,  -,       ,        ,         ,     ,   ,           ,  ,        .           ,             ,              ,         ,              ,         ,  , ,   ,   ,   ,  , ,   ,   .    ,  ?   .       ,  . , ,   ?   .  ?  .  ,       [],  , .   ?   . , -.       .    ,   .      . ,    ,  .       ?     ,   .         .    ?  .    ,   .        .  ,     ,           .   ,  ,      ,    ,      ., ,        .    .    ,  .      [].   ,   .    ,    .    ,      ,  , .    ,   ,     ,   ,    , ,   ,      ,      ,     .                ,     ,     ,     ,     .   ,     ,   ,    ,       ,      ,     ,      .          ,    ,        ,    ,            , ,  .    ,   ,   ,   ,      ,    ,             ,       ,    .       ,  ,        ,   ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , , , , ,   ,     ,   ,                   ,   ,  ,  ,     .   , ,   .  -,  , , ,     !            ,  ,  ,  ,   ,   ,   ,  , ,   ,    ,  ,              ,          ,     -;        ,   ,        , ,  ,                   -,            ,      ,        ,  ,  ,    ,    ,  ,  ,    . ,    ,  ,  ,   ,      ,    , ,  ,  ,        .  ,  ,    ,  -,   ,    .    ,    .    ,      .  ,        ,      . ,  ,   . , ,   .   .    ,    .      :      ? -, ,   [].  ,   ,    .  ,  ,   ,    . ,   ,       :   ,    !   ,     :  ,    []. ,    ,    , .    ,      .  :  , .   ,   . ,  ?    .    ,  . ,  , ,   .    , ?   ,  ,   .   , ?  ? !     ,  ,   ,    ,   .,        ,                   .       ,   ,   ,     ,  ,      ,        ( ).    ,        ,    ,             .  ,     []   ,     .          ,              ,      ,   ,   ,   .      ,    ,    ,  ,          .        ,   .       ,   ,         ,     .     ,       ;   ,         ,     , [],   ,   ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   ,  ,  ,   ,   ,   ,  ,  ,   , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , .., .,  ,  ,   ,  ,   ,  ,  , ,    -,  , ,   ,  ,  ,  ., ,  [],  , ,   ,  ,  , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  .,  ,  ,  ,  ,   ,   ,    ,   , -[],  ,  ,  [],  ,   , ,  ,  ,  ,   ,  ,  , ,   ,  ,  ,  ,   ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   ,    .        ,          ,      ,      ,  ,        ,          ,     . ,    ,     ,  ,  ,      ,  ,     .     .   .  ,    ,  .    ?   .  ,  .      .     ,   ,  .     -   -,       .    ,    ? ,     .    ,    .    -,   ,    [].    .      ,   . ,  , .  ,   ,   ,     ,     .          ,   ,    ,     .   : [], -, ; , , ---:   .  .   , ?   ,   ,   ,       , -, , ,   , -, ,     ,   . ? . , -, ; ,  ,     ;     ,   ,    . , -, . ,   ,   ; , ,     ; ,  , -, , ,  .       , ,  ?         ,    ?  ,   ,   .  ,    .   -, .  ,   ,  . , , ,  .    .!  !  !     ,    .   ,  ,  , ,         : ! !      ,       , ,   ,   ,        ,    ,     ,    ,    .            ,    -  .   ,    ,    ,    ,   ,    .     ,  ,     -   .   , -, , ,   ,  ,           ,     ,   ,       .  , ,    . ,  .    . - , ,  ,     : -!        ,       . ?  .   ,   .  -    !   !  . ,  ,    ,      ,         .    [],   . , ,  ?   . ,   .       ,        ,              .  ,    . ..: . ,     ,   ,  .        -,   .          []?   . ,     , .   ,  ?  ,   .  ? ,    . , , -  . ,   ,   !   . ,   ,      . -    .     ?    .   , ? ,  , ,   . [],   ,        ,      ,         -   , ,    [].        , ,    ,            ,       ,  ,   . ,   ,     [],     ,     , ,  ,    . ,   ,    ,       ,           .          ,    ,  ,   ,            ,  ,  , ,          ,       ,      ,   ,   .   ,   ,         ? -?   .  ,   ,  .  , ,  .    ,     .  ,  ., .         .  ?  .  ,   .  ,  .,   .     ?    .,     . ,    ,  ,     ,  :       , []?  ,   .        -,   .      -?      .    ?  ,   .   ?   .  ,   .    ?     ,   ?   .   ?   .  ,   .         ,   ,  ,     .   ?    . ,  ,   ,   .     . -?   .   ,     ?    ,     ,   -    ?  ?   ?     .   ,    !   .      ,  .   ,   .        ,  []. , ?   .  ,   .    ,    .  !   . ,  ,  ,  .  ,    ,           ,    ,      [].       ,       ,     .    ,    -   ,       .    ,   ,      ,        ,   ,       , ,            .                ,        ,        .    ,       ,  , ,            ,        ,   , ,   ,           .       ,        .  ,     -  ,    ,      ,   ,    ,      ,       ,   ,   .  ,        ,   :    ,   ,    . ,  ..     .  ,       ,     ..   ,      .    ,        ,   ,   ,         ,       ,    ,     .  ,          ,       .    ,     , ,    ,   .   , ,   .        , ,    . , [],    , ,  .    ,   ,   . ?  .  ,   .     -,    . , -,  ,      , ,    .       .     .  !  .     ,    .    ,   ,     ,    :  -,     ? , ,   . , -,  ,   ,          ? , ,   ,    ,       .    :  ,   ,         !    ,   , ,        .    ,    ,        .   ,   , ,  ,  .     [].      .     ,    [],    ,    - .     -,       ,    , ,            ,     ,      .   ,    .     ,   ,      .  ,          .      ,     .   ,  ,   . ,   ,    ,      .  ,  -!   ,    .  -  , ?  ., -,    , .                           , -, ,  .                 ,  . .              . ,    ,                           , .,  .     ,   .   ,   .  ,  ,  , -    . ,  ,  ,  ?,    , , , ,               ,     , ,  , ,  . -,  ,   . - , ,     ,   .   ,             .  ,  ,     [],           .  ,           ,  ,    ,         ,      .    ,   .           [] ,      ,      ,   .                        -          -               .     ,     ,   .   ?   .   ,  ,   . ,  ?   .  ,   .       ,    [],     , .  ,      ,          ,  .     [], -  ,   .    ,   .    ,  ,      ,    ,     , ,       . ,    []   ,             ,       ,         ,      [], ,   ,        ,   ,    ,   ,       -       [].,   ,   ,        ,  ,     [],        ,       ,  ,  , ,  - ,    ,      .     ,       ,   .      , ,  , ,     ,    ,     .,  ,     :   !   , ! ,  ! ,   ![],     ,          ,    ,    ,      , ,   ,   ,   ,     .       -          . ,         ,  .      , .        ,   [],       -,       ,          ,     .       ,   ,   . !  ,  ,   ,      .                 []                                          .                             ,           [],   , -,     ,  ,  ,     [],  .  ,    ,   ,     ,  , ,            .  - ,  ,           -,        ,          . !  ,   ,         . ,   .      ,   .      !    .    ![]       ,      [].    [].          ,               ,    .       ,   ,   ,             ,     .     ,          ,  ,    ,      .                 ,     ,   -,    ,        ,        [].                 ,   .      ,   ---  ---,          ,   [].          ,         ,     ,         ,   ,    ,    .        ,   ,     ,          ,           -       ,    ,   .  -,         ,           ,  ,    [],     ,    .   ,      ,     (   ,         ),  - ,   ,     -,     ,  .,   ,      ,     ----      ,  ,   ,  ,    ,  -,   ,    -,     .            ,     .         ,       ,    .   .       , , , ,  , , , , , ,  ;      .       ,     ,                ,       [].            .       ,       .     -  ,     [] ,   ,      ,           ,       .   (           )     ,     .          ,      []  .       ,   ,     ( )   , ,     .             ,    -    ,   ,    ,   ,    : , , , , ,  , -, ,  ,              (         ,   []   ).           ,        ;  ,    []   ,          ,  .  ,   -        ,          ,      ,         .        ,          ,      .          ,       ,      ,       ,   .             ,     (              ),   ,          ,  ,  ,   ..,      ,       .           ,   ,    . ,     ,     ,      ,       , ,   ,           ; ,      ,    ,     ( ),                   .       [],  -       , ,    ,  ,           .        ,   : ,  [].       ,         ,           .        ,    ,              ,        ,        .       ,            .    ,    ,    ,    ,       .   -   .     ;          .          ,     ,   ,   .          .   ,         ,  ,     ,     ,           .    :  ,   ,       ,   ,    ,     ,     ,     .      .               ,   ,     ,    .        ,                    ,     ,     .  ,      ,  -  ,   ,  , ,   ,     ,     [],       .        ,    ,     [],    :         .   ,    ,            [].       ,         [],     .   ,     -  ,    ,  ,    ,    ,         []  , ,     . ,       , ,   . , -     ,     ,           .   -       ,             [],          ,  -,       ,    ,  - , ,       , , [] .     [].   -      ,         ,    .        ,         ,  ,   .,   ,    ,  , ,   ,      .   ,     ,    .       ,     . , , ?   .  ,  .           .  .   ,  , ?   .         -,      ,         .    ,     . -,   ,      ,   [],        . , ,     ,     .,         (    ),          [],     -,      [] ,            [].  ,         , ,    ,    .       (       !)     ,      ,      ( )     .          ,      ,      [],         (    ...   ,       ) ,        [],    ,       ,      .          ,   ,         ,    ,        ,   .    ,        [],    , ,   ,     ,     . ,  ,    ,       , ,    .        ,  ,        ,       .       , ,  ,   ,    .    ,    ,  .  ,  ,  ,    ,     . ,   ,      .                     ,          .      .   :  ,   ?    ?  . - , ,   .    ,        ?    . , ,   .  ,        ,  ,      .       .   ,  ,   ,        ,    ,  , -    . ,   ,     ,     .  -    , ?  ,   ,      .   ?   . ,   ,   ,   .         -                             -         .  , ,  ,         ,   ,    .  -           .   . ,      !     . , ,        ,                                           .      .          . , , .     . , , ,   ,        (,        ,  ,  ,   ),      .  ,  ,    ,           . , ,   .      ,    ,        ,   ,       ,             .       ,   .   ,     ,    ,  ,      ,       ,      .   ,   .  ,   .  -    , ,      ,  -.       -   ,      ,      ,      .  ,    ,  ,     ,  ,  ,          ,    ,   ,       ,      .     ,   , ,  ,     ,  ,   . , -  !       ,  ? ,     .      ,     -  , ,  ,   ,  ,  -,   ,   ,    .   .  ,  ,    .     -. ,         ,     .,  ,   . ,   ,  .  , .  [],   .  , ,  .   , . ,       .  ,     .       , ?   .   ,   . ?   .  ?   ,   .    ,   .          ,   ,   .  [],   ,   ,       .      , ,   .      ,            ,       ,      . -   .     ,     ,          ,    - .  .    . , ,         ,         .       ,  ,    ,   .       ? , .  .    ,    ,     ,     ,       .  ,      .  -.   , .   . .    .    ,   . -.   .      .         . -- -.   -.     ,   ,                .  ,   ,    ?   ,     .     ,   .  ,   .     .  ,    .    . .     ?   ,   .         ,         .   , ? --[]. - (, []):       ,   ,      ,        ,    ,        ?  (, ):      ,     .   ,      -    .       .  (, ):         ,        ? :   . -:              ?(  .)  :        . - (, ):   .(    .) :  !  !( . .)   ,   ,     .    . ,     [].       .     , ?  [],   ,    .           .   , ,   .          .  ,   ?   . -,   .    .    ?      ,   ,   ,  -,      ,          []. , ,  ,    , ,     ,     .   ,         : , .   ?   ,    ,       ,    ,     .      ---[]  --              ,      ,     ,   .       ,    .   ,    ,                 .      ,    .           ,    ,         ,        ,     ,   ,      . .,    ,   ,   ,    ,    ,           ,                  ( ,  ,    ).   ,  ,      ,      .  -    ,             ,  ,       .  ,             ,     ,          ,    ,      .    .   []    , ..,  ; .  ,  ; . ..,   ; . ., ; . ..,  ; . ..,  ; . ..,  -; . ,  -; . .,   ; . ., ..; .  , ..;.  ,   ; .  ,  ; .  ,  ; . .,  ; . ., ; . .., ;. ., ;  ,  ; ...,     ; ...,  ; . ..,  -; .  , ,  ; . ., .      ., .  ,  . ,   ,   ,          ? ,   .   ,  -      .  ? , ?   .  : , ,  ,      . ,  ,   .   ,      ,     ,        , .   ,   .   []. ,       .  ,  ,   .     -       :     , ?     ,    .         ,  .  ,      .  ,   ,    ,  , ,    . ,       .   ,    .  [],   .     ,          .  ,    ,        .         .    -      ,    ,   ,        ,    .      ,       ,    .    ,       ,    .     . ,   ,   ,        ,   . ,     ,     ,    ,         ,  ,        .     ,    .    .    .        ,    ,         .    ,              ,                .      .   ,   .         .     [],  ,    ,             ,            .  -    ,   .   ,       .   ,   .   ,  ? ?   .  , .  .    , . , .  .     [],   ?   .  ?   .  ,   .  ,    .    . . ,    ,   , [].  -  .     .  .     -,  ,             .  -.     ,    ,  .  ?, ,  . -?   ,    ,    .   , .   [],  ,      .   ,    ,        .  []    ,      ,  .    ,  . , ,     ,   ,   ,   ,   ,         . , . , . , . , .   ,   .       ,   ..    , ? ,   ...   .   ?   . ,   ..    , ,    .  ,   .,     ? .. ,      ,     .  -   [].        ,   , ,         .       -,     ,         ,       .   , ?   : . , ,   . ,      ,  .       , ?   .  ..: . ,   ..    . ,    ,       ,     , ,      .   ,   .  ,      ,        . ,   , ?   .   ,  ,   ,      []. ?   .        .  ,  ,   ,       .   , ,  ,   ..    ,     []. ..: -.     !   .   ,  ,   ?     .  ,         ,      ? ,   ..,                . --, ,   .  -,   ,      ,   ,   . ,  ,   .    ,       .      ?   .       ,    ,   .  ,     .    ,   .      ,   .  [],   ,   .,  ,  .   , , ,   ,   ,          .  ,       ,    ,   ,    ,      .  -   ,    ,  ,          .    ,   ,    [], ,     ,      -.    ,   ?  ,    ,    ,   ,  ,     -      .   ,   ..,   .      []      .   ,   .  , .    ,  ?     . -,     .  , ,   .  , ,   ..     ,   . -?   .,  ,     ,    ,      ,    , ,   ,       ,   ,   .       ?   . ,   .., ,        ,   ,   ,   ,   ,           . ?  ,    ?  ,     .   ?  ,         ,      . .. ,    ,     ,    ,   ,      ,      .    ?   .  ,   .    ,   ,       .  ,    ,    .                , ,  ,       . ,   .   .   ,        ,   ,       .  ,   ,  , :  !   !    ? ,  ? ,  .      .     !  !    , . , ,      .    , ,     !   !   .                ,   ,  ,     ,  , ,       .    ,    ,   ,  ,  ,        ,          ,                  , , ,   , , ,  .        -   , [].      ,      []  ,             .       []   ,       ,                                               ,      ,   .       ,      ,           ,          ,      ,   .      ,   ,    ,      .         ,    ,   .        ,        ,   ,     ,    .   ,   .           .   ,     ,    ,          ,         .           ,        .  ,  ,   ,     .  -  .    ,   .  ,    ,     .        . ,  ,    , ,   .     , . ,   ,   .     ,   . ,   .     .   .   .     []   ,   .  [],   ..  ,       , ,   ,       ,        , ,       .  ,   ,       .      ,   ,          ,     . -   ,  .   , ,      ,      . ,     .   .  .,    ,   ,       .     ,     ,   .      ,            . , , ,   ,     !    , ,   .          , ?  ,           ,       . -,   ,      .             ?,    ,                  ,      ,     ,       ,    -,   ,  ,   ,    ,         .  ,   .      ,    .,  ..            ,         [],     ,       ,               . ,   !   .    !         ,   !   ,   ,   ,     ,   .,     ,     .   !   ,       ,   .         .       ,   ,     [].   :       []. ,      :   !  ![]      ,      , ,   ,        [],      ,      ,        [], ,   .     ?     .    ,     ,   .  ,  .   ,  ?   . ,   .     .  .     .   ?   .  ,   .    .         ,      .     ,   ,   ,    .    .   ,   .     .,  .        . ,    [].     ,    ,  ,       ,     , ,    ,    .   ,    .   , ,   .   ,   .    ,     . ..        ,  ,  ,  .  ,   ,      ,      . [],   .    ,    .      ,        ,   []?  ,  ,    ?   [],        ,   ,   ,    ,    ,    ,   - ,   ,         ,    ,   ,        -,      !   [],     ,  ,    ,    ,   ,     ? -        []. , ,   ,   ,  ,        ,   ,                . ,          ,    ?     ,     ,      ,     .      ,   [],    ,    - ,    .      . , ,  ,    ,   .          ,   ,      ,      [],         .       ,    , []!    ,   .        ,         ,        ,       .   ,   ,   ,   ,   -,   -,       ,   ,    ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,       ,   ,   ,   ,   -,   ,  -[]           . ,    -   ,             - ,   -        ,  ,   ,      .  ,     ,    ,           ,    ,      - ,    -  .   ,   ,     ,    ,   ,     , ,         . ,   ,      ,      , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,     .              .     ,   .       [],           ,       ,   ,     [].   ,   .        ,   ,    .      , [], , , -, ,    , ,       ,   ,     ,   ,   ,          . , ,   ,               ,       ,  ,        ,      ,   .    . [].    .    .            [],       ,           ,    ,    . -,    ,    .   ?      ,   .   , ,    .  , !, ?  , ,   .      ., .      ,    ,    .  ,    ,     ,   ,  ,    .  :      , [].          ,   ,     ,    . ,       ,      ,      .     ,   ,    []?     - ,   .      . -    ,        []. -     .      ,     ,      ,      , , ,    . , ,    ,    , .    ,   ,          [],        .  : ,   ,  [].   ,        ,        ,       .     ,   ,     .  ,     [],         [],           ,     ,   .  ,   ,    ,   ,     .      ,   .     ,   ,       .     .  -[],      ,   -,  ,    -   ,    ,      , , ,    ,         ,          ,             .   ,   ,     ?   ,         ,        ?    ?     ,          ,    .     ,   .        [].             .         ,       ,        ,    . ,     - .       ,     ,         --.    !           .  ,    ,    .     ,     ,  ,  --.  ,     ,   -         , ,   .     ,     ,     ,   ,     []. ,    .     ,    ,    [].        .         ,  .      !  ,  ,    ,     ,     .     -   ? !   .    !     .        .      ,   []   ,    [].   ,    !   [],   ,     .     [],   ,  ,  ,     -  ,            ,   ?,  ,      ,           [], ,   ,          ,      ,            ,                 ,   .   !   ..      -.   ,     .         ,    .  -[]!    ,   ,    ,    ,                  ,     ?  ,  .      ,     ,    .  .. :           .   , ?   .  , ,   . ,  ?    .  ,  .       .    ,   . ,      ,        ,   ,  ,  . ,  ,      .    .   ,   , ?    . ,   .    ?    . ?   .     ,    . , ,    .   ,    ,         ., ,    ,    : , ,    .    ,   .    ,   ?   . ,   .    . .     ,       , ,  ,         .  , , ,      ,  . , ,   .            .  ,   ,   [],           ---,   ,           .       ,      ;  ,         ,      ,   ,   ( ,         ,    ),        .  ,   ,    , ,   [],       ,     ,     ,      ,      ,   ,         .,   ,  ,  ,     ,  ,   , -,    ,    ( . .),  -,  ,  ,  ,    ,  ,  ,  , -,    ,   ,  , ,   ,  ,  .,  ,    , -,      ,  ,  ,   -,  ,         .         ,     ,    . -  ,    .    ?   ,   ,      .      ,   ,     .   .    .    .  ,        . ,   .  . . .  ,    .     ,      ,      ,  ,  [].       []?   .    ,   . ,    .    ,  ,   .    .    .      .       ,       .   ,   ,     ,      , ,  , .    ,   .  , , ,   .         .  ,       .   ?    . ,   .     ,  .   ,     .   ,     ,    .   ,  , ,    .    .   -?  ,   .   ,   .   .  ,    ,      ,   ?  . ,  ?   .         . , !   ,  .   [].    .   -   .      ...   .        .     .             .      ,   .       .   .   .   -.   -   -,     -,    .  , ,  ,      .     , . !   . ,       ,   .   ,   .    ,   .    ,       .       [],        ,           :   ? !             []? ,   ?   .           :                   ---,          ,     .     ,        ,    ,    [].           ,      , ,        , ,        ,     ,   ,     .    ,     ,   ,    ,         ,    .              ,         ,         ,     .  ,   ,    .  ,        ,      .  ,    ,   .              .   , ?    .  ,   .     .   : .  ,  ,   .     ,   .     . ,   ..,          ,   .     ,     [],   .  , , . -,  ,   ..   , ,    , ,       ,  . ,   ,       . ?  . ,   .      .          . ,   []?    .         ,   . ,   ,    .      ,        ,  -           .      ,        .       .    .     ,   . -, ,  .        ?  ,   ., ,    .          (   )      (-   )           -   (       )     -  (     )      ( )              (     )                (!)                ( -  )    (!)     (! !)        (  )  (!) . ,  ,    ,    , , ,    ,        ,        ,        ,    .    .  ,   ,  ,          .    - .           .     -.        ,   ,    ,   ,        ,    .      .      .   .   .   ,   ,    [].   ,    .     ,      ,  . ,   ,    ,      ,    , ,         ,     ,  , , ?          .           . , !     ,     .   ! !             .     ,     .   ,  !   ,  .  , !      .      .    ,      , , ,       . ,  !      .              . ,   ,     .     ?        ,        .  -    ,  !     .  , ,  !    .        (    !),        . ,   (    !)      .     !     ,        .        ?  ,   :     ,  ,     ,   ,  , ,    ,    ,    ,        ?   !   .     ! ! !       .   ,     !   ,  . ,    ,  .   ?   .     .    ,    ,  ,            ? ,  ,   ,  ,   ,    .    ?   . ,   .      . ,   ,    ,           ,    ?   ?  ..   .     ,   [].  ,          ,  ,  -?   .     ?     , .    ,   ,   .   []?   ..    ,   ,   -  ,          [].       .      ?    . ,  ,   .     .   ,  .     ,    ,   .      !   .     !  ,      ,   .        . ,   ..,         ,  , ,   .    ,  ,      ,   ,  ,   . ,   - ,   .  ,    ,       ,     , ,   . ,      ,     ,  -       .     [],   ..  , -, ?   . ,      ,   . , -,   ,     .     ?   . ,      .    ,  ,   .                      [].  ,   ,    ?    ,         ,        .   .  , ,  -,      ,       . ,  !       .     ,   .       ?   .    ,    ,   .    ! ,    !  .        , ?   .   ,   .    .  --[].  , ? ? ,  , .        []     ,   ,           . , ,     , ,   .         . ,   . -,  ,   .    []     ,    , , , , ,   ,     , , ,     :   ,   ,   ,   ,  , , , ,    . ;           ,      , ,    ;     ,   , , ,      ;   , -,   ;   .;   ;    ,     .        ,   : .  .   .,  ,  .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .  .  .  .  .    .    .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . []  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   .   .  .-     , .   .   . ,   ,   ,  .  .  .   .   .  .           .       .   .   .  .  .  .  .  .         .  .  .    .    ,  ,   ,   , ,     ,  ,        , , , , , , , , ,   , , , , , , , , , , ,  ,  ,  , , , ,   , , ,  ,  ,  , , ,   ,  , , .         ,   -, -, -,  -,      [],    , [],     ,     [],    ,  ,  ,   ,    ,     , ,    ,   .         ,      .       ,     ,  . .,  -, ,   ,    ,   ,     ,     ,                                       ,     ,     ,   ,      ,    . , ,    ,       .     [].     [].  [].    [].         ,       : ,    ,      ;                                [].     ,   .   , ,      .  ,   ,   .     .   ,    -  ,  , ,   ,   ,      .  ,  ,      ,  . ,   -,   .   . , ,     , ,     .  , .   -  . ,    !   , !   . ,     .   .   ,   .  ?   . , ,   , ,   .   .   .         .    .      . ,  , ,   .    ,        ,     ,    ,   , -  -,        . ,    .    ,  ,    ,     .      ,    .           ,    ,     ,    -,      ,   ,    ,     ,            .  , ,  ,  ,  .  ,    ,     . ,       ,  ,    , ,  , ,    ,     -  []       ,    ,         ,  .  ,  .    , -   ,     ,        :   !,       [],       . -,   ,  -      .    ,    .           ,   , ,   ,     ,           ,   ,  ,     ,   ,   , ,   ,        [],  -  : , !    ! !    :        []  .        .   .     ,   .  , , .  ?   .      ,   .     .  ,  .       .  ,  ,        ,    .  ,    .      - . ! !   .,  ,          , ,       [],   .    ,   ,       ,    []. ,    ,     .    ,     ,         ,      ,  ,   ,      ,      , .  [] .    ,        ,             [],      -. ,                 ,    ,     ,   -,   ,   ,     ,     ,   ,   -,   ,     .   , , ,            ,      [],       ,      ,     ,      .            ,  ,  ,    ,       . ,  !![]  ,   . ,      ,           ,      ,     ,      .  ,  ,  !  ..   . ,  .  -     . ,  ,  , ,     . -, ,   ,  . ,    ,      ! ,      ,     .      .    ,       ,   , ,        .       .       ,          ,              ,    .   ,      ,    -   .,     [],      .  ,     ,   ,    ,        ,     ,  ,   ,       .     ,       ,   .  , ,    ,         ,       ,     ,          ,       ,         ,  :           ,                 ,     .    ,    ,      ,  ,      ,   ,    --.          ,        ,       ,     ,         []      ,      .  ,  ,     .      ,  -, ,   .  ., -, , ,   ,                  , -       , ..., ...., ..., .., ..., .., .., .., ....., ..., ..., ...., .., ....., ....., ....., ......  ......[].       . -,         ,      ,    ,  ,  ,       ,       .     ,   ,   ,  ,    . , ?  , .  ,   ,  .     ?  .     :  , , ! , !   ,     ,           ,        ,  ,     .   !        ,  . ,     ,    ,          [].      ,    ,     ,     ,         .  ,   , : ! !     : ! !    ,    ,   ,   ,               -,     []. []        .   ,   , ,       ,      ,     ,      ,     [],   , , ,   ,  ,       ,   ,          ,    ,   ,  . ,  ,    ,      ,  ,    .      ,    ,            ,          ,      ,        ,         : [].       , -    ,    ,             .         ,  ,   ,     ,      .         ,     .        ,   ,        .     ,            .  -, ,    ,   -:   .    :   .    ,     ,      ,             ,  -                .     ! ,  ,       ,    .             [].       ,          ,   ,     .           .           .   ,           .     ,    ,   , ,     ,          , ,    .   ,      , ,   ,          ,        ,      ,        !     , .  ,        . , -  !     .  -!  , ,   ,       , .  ,     . ,  ,  ,    ,         .        .         ,          ,             .        ,   ,      ,   ,     ,  ,     ,     .   !   .       ,  :     ?    -? - ,     ,       ?     ? -,  , , . , , ?   . -,   .   ,      ,       .  ,     ,   . -,   ,   .      ,   ,   ,      ,    ,  ,        .    ?[]      ,    - .              .        ,    ,      ,   .      , , , ,    ,    ,    (     ),   ,     ,    .   ,    ,   ,             .         ,   ,   ,         ,     ,             .         ,    ,           (,         ,    )                           .  .  .     ,   [],   ,              .                ,                     ,    ,            .  ,  ,    ,    ,       -  ,   ,       ,       .      ?       ,       .         .    []        []        ,      ,       ,   ,  ,     .                         ?     ,    .        . ,    .        ,   ,         .     ,     .  ,        ,   ,   ,         , ,   ,          .     ,   .   ,  -  ,    .   ,      .   ,          , ,    .   ,   ,      :        ,         .    , -    ,   ,   ,      .              ,     ,  ,  ,         ,     ..,     .  ,   - ,   ,     ,        ,    .       ,  ,       .     ,  , , ,   ,      ,    [].      ,  ,   ,        ,    ,     - ,    ,    ,    ,  ,   ,    ,      ,       ,         ,       ,    ,        -   .   ,    ,       ,       ,        .    ,        (   [],      ),            (    ,      ,    ),  -           .           ,       ,       .           ,            ,  ,      ,     ,       .       ,    ,         ,    ! ,     ,    ,    ,        .       (   ,     ,   ,   ,  ,       ,   ),               .       ,   ,           ,   ,  .    ,       ,     ,          (      ),      ?          ,       ,       , , ,   ,                                    .     ,   ,           ,     -                                  -                                    . ! !    !       .        , , ,      ,    ,     , ,   ,    ,   ,  , ,           .   , , ,  [].      ,    .    . ,     ,        ,         , ...[](     ,     ),         ,                 .   ,  .       ,   .    ,     (      ),    ,      ,      .,         ,   ,  (  !),       ,       ,  -  . - !         ,  ,        ,      .   ,  ,     ,      [], ,   , . ,       ,          ,    ,   ,      ,  ,       ,     ,       ,                   ,  .    - .           .       ,        ,     ,     ,      [].         ,      ,    ,        .           ,   ,  ,            .     ,      ,   ,    ,  ,         .  ,   - ,    ,      ,             ,              ,                           -                               -                       .   ,  (  ,    ),       ,     ,       (  !),  ,      ,    ,      ,   ,    ,     ,    ,                   .     ,    ,   ,       ,      ,          .   ,    ,    ,         ,   ,    ,   ,     ,   . ,  !   ! ,    ,   ,    .     ,   ,    ,   ,     .     ,    .    .       - ,    ,     .     ,  ,  ,      . ,   ,   .     ,    ,       -  ,  ,  ,   ,   ,   ,     .    ,       ,   ,      .  ,   ,        . -  ,    .      , ,       ,           ,     ,     ,    ,      .        .   !   ,       .         .    .    . ,   ., ,        ,      ,    ,     , , , ,       ,  ,      .     , . ,     ,         ,           -[]!          .      ,       ,   ,     ,     .        .   ,          ,   ,   , ..    ,     (     ),              ,  ,    ,     ,   ,    ,   ,  ,    .       !          ,       ,     ,      ,            .       ,       ,   ,        ,      ,     ,       .   ,   ,  ,       . ,        ,   ,    ,    ,   ,   ,        :   -         ,      [].  ,    ,  .  ,    ,         ,   ,  ,      ,   ,      ,       . ,       ,         , , - ,    ,   -,  , -  (,      []),   ,  ,   ,    .  !       []       , , ,                                ,       , , ,  ,  .      ,     ,  ,     ,     ,     .   ,     .     .                       -                 ,  ,    ,  ,       .   ,   ,    ,   -,  .       , ,   ,          ,     ,    ,   -, -     ,  .        .      ,         ,          ,      ,     , .     ,  -,  ,          ,      . ,    - .     !      ,    ,            .  ,   -,      ,   ,   ,                              .    -,   ,   ,   ,        ,     ,            .   ,      , ,  ,   ,    ,       .                ,     ,   , .  -        ,            ,     .     ,            ,  ,                         ,     .   ,  [],    .       .    ,          - , ,  ,   , ,  ,     ,     -,        . ,    ,     ,  .  ,         ,         .       ,       -   ,   ,           -  , ,       .     ,       ,    [],  ,   ,  ,   ,   ,   ,   [].      ,     ,  ,    ,      ,     ,       ,   ,  ,       :      ,      ,        .   ,      ,   .      ,     ,    . -!   ,    ,   ,    ,       : -!  ,   ,    .     :  .   , .  ------.   ,  ,  ,         ,   , ,   ,   -,      ,     -  . ---.         -     --,     ,    ,  ,    ,  ,         . ,          ,        :   .          .    ,   ,  , ,      -  -,  ,  ,  ,       ,     .  ,        ,     ,     ,      .       .   ,                  , ,        ,                  . ,      ,     . ,      ,     .    ,      , ,     .   ,  ,    ,     ?    .   ,   ,        ,      [],   ,                              []                ,     [].    ,    ,          .        ,    .     , ,                             .  ,         ,           ,       .    ,     .                             , .    -    ,    ,        ,   .    ,     [],     ,     ,        ,  ,     .      ;  ,    ,    -  .  ,     .    ,        ,  , , ,   ,    ,    ,       ,  ,       ,        [].  ,  ,     ,    ,        ,        ,   . [].   .   [].    ,  ,       ,      ;    ,                 .        ,    , ,       ,        ,     ,   .     ,                  ,   -                      .   ,      ,     ,     , ,      ,   ,    ,                               ,   ,       ,       .    ,  ,        - ,  ,   ,  ,     ,  ,     ,                                              -  . -   ,      ,      .  ,    .   ,  -   .         ,   , ,      . ! !  !   !   ,          .   ,   ,     ,     ,       ,           -                       .  , -  ,     ,     ,   ,                                         .    ,        -     ,    ,     . ![]  ,     . [],  ,     ,   ,   ,          ,   ,   ,     ,                                                                            ,    [].             -                     , ,            ( !)      -  .          ,    ,     [],       ,  ,    ,      ,        ,    .         ,   .  ,  ,        ,   ,       .      ,   -     .   ,          ,          .    ,   ,  -    ,  ,  ,    ,      ,        .     ,      .    ,      ,             ,       .     ,        ,   ,  ,    ,        .   ,      ,         ,         .    : ,      . ?     ,   .    ,   .     ,     ,    ,  -,     ,   .      ,    ,  ,   ,       ,      .     ,      .  ,    ,       ,    ,    .    ,    ,   ,   ,      , -         . ,     ,   ,    ,    .        ,         ,   ,    ,         .   ,           ,   ,    ,    ,    , , , ,    ,    ,   ,    ,    .      ,  , ,   ,  -       .    ,  ,     ,  ,    .                    ,      ,      -                                  .  ,  -    ,  ,  ,                         .      :    ,   ,                     .   ,    ,    ,    ,   .   -                .      ,  ,    .    ,    ,   ,                                                                []                                        .   ,    .         ,      .  ,   ,    ,   ,   ,         , ,    ,   .   ,       ,        ,      ,  ,   ,      .    ,     .  , , ,    ,        ,     ,         .        , ,   ,            . ,      ,     ,  -  ,     ,  .     ,     ,            . -      ,   :    .               ,    ,      ,          .     -  ,      ,   ,      .        , ,  ,   ,    ,       ,     ,  [],        ,   ,    ,  -      ,      ,  -       ,       .   ,   ,   , , ,     , -   .    ,  -       , ,   -,  ,   ,     ,      ,       ,  ,    ,          .   !   .    .   .  []   ,        .    ,   ,      -,         ,            ,                                          .        ,    [],     ,     ,    ,  ,    -        . -   ,  ,                                                        ,        .   ,       ,     .   ,           ,  ,  - ,     ,    , , ,     ,         . ,  ,     ,      ,   ,   ,   ,    , ,     ,     ,                  -                                             .    ,   ,   .  [],    ,  ,   ?        ,      ,                               -       -      .   ,     .           ,     .     [].     .        .               .     ,      ,    ,   ,   ,  ,        ,        ,    [].       ?     ?        , .     ,  ,     ,     ,        ,     . , ,  ,   .     ,     ,    ,       .   ,        ,     [].  ,  .     ,   ,   .    , ,    ,     .  !      ,  ,  ,    ,   ,      ,    ,     .    .   ,     ,  ,    .          ,      [],                  ,  ,           : , , !  ,  ,  ,     , ,  ,  ,     . ,  ,   .     ,        ,  ,   ,    ,     ,     ,      . ,  ,   .       .   .         .  , ,   ,     ,   ,     . ,     ,     .       ,    ,       .      ,   ,      .    ,     ,   ,          ,             .        ,    .    ,   ,   ,    ,      ,    ,       ,  ,    ,  ,  ,   ,              ,         , ,   ,           ,   ,        ,           ,  ,      -          .                     ,         .  ,     ,                                              ,  ,               -          - .   , ,  ,     ,      ,    ,      , ,  ,        ,   ,  -    , ,   .      [],    ,   ,      ,    ,     , ,         ,    ,    , ,  ,    ,          ,        ,  ,    ,         ,   ,                          -                                                                          .  ,    ,       ,   ,         ,    ,        ,      .    ,   , !    ,   ,  !       , ! !       ,  , , !     - -, ,   ! ,  , , !  ,         . !          ,   ,   ,        .     .  (   )  ,       .     !   ?      ,  ,  ,      ?     !   -, !       ,      ,     ,   .    ? ,   .   ,   ,               ,    -,      .   -,    ,   : ! !  , !   , , .     ,     .      ,   ,    ,    , ,   ,    .       .  .   ? , .   ,    ,   ,         ,    ,   .     .     ,    ,   ,   ,       ,  ,      ,   .    ,    , ,    ,    .,   ,       ,  , ,     ,   .  ,        ,  ,  .     ,   ,     ,        ? .  ! -!  ,    . !      ,   .    ,  -  ,    .  .    ,     .   . ,    ,     .   ,  .   .      ,   ,       , ,  . ,  ,   .      .     ,  ? ,   .   .  .      ,        .   , ,    . ,  ?        ? , . -   .  .           , -    ? ,     .  ,   ,     .      .     -  . ,      ,        .        .      .        ,   .    .  .   .    .  .       .  .     ,  .    . ,     .      .   ? , .     -,   .   .        .         ?[]  .      .    .   ,   .      ,         .  .  ,    ..       .    :    ,    [],   .         [].         ?  . ,     . . ,      .   -   .       .    ,  .     : , ,    [].     .    .     .    . ,   ,  .     ,     .      .   ,    ,             -   .    ,    ,   ,   ,    .  .     .   .   ?    .    ,        . ! , ,  ,  !  ,   ?    ?         . -   ,    .   . -    . -,  -   ?     .!    ,   .   .  ,      .     . , ,  ! ,  !     .    . ,         .   , .    ,   . -  ,    . ,      , ,  .  .,  ,  .    ,    .   ,  ?   ,  .     ,    :  ,  .,     ,   ,  .     ,         . ?         ? -.  .  ,   .      . -    ., .     - ,    ,     .     .        .       .    .   .   []. ,    , - .    .  .     ,    ,         .     .       ,    -.   ? , ,    .  ?  .   ,  ,  .     . ,   .  . -     ,  , ,    ,   ?         .        . ,  . ,   .  . ,     . .      .     .. ,    ,    ?,    .  .   . .!      .    .  , .    .  ,   - .    . ,   . ,     ,      . ,   ?    ,   .   ,   , , .   .  .  ,  ,  [].  .  .     .    ,  .  - .   .    . ,     ,   .   .    .    .  [], - . ,     .   ?    ,   ,  .  ,   .  ,  , . ,  ,   :  ,   ,    :  . ,     ,  -        [],     . !       -.     .  , .  ,  .  ,  . -!   , , , ,    -,    .  ,      . .   - .  -     .       , !     .     .     .     .    .       .    .     ,  .        . -   .     , ? .  .   . ?   .    ,  ,     .:    ,  ,  -, . :    ,  , - ,   ,     .     ,   , , ,    .  .  .   .   .  ,   -   ,      .   .     -    .   ?  ,     ,   ,   .   .  .  - .   ,  ,    .       .    .  ,        ,   []. ,   .     .    .    ,      .    . -    .  . .  ,  ,  .    .  ,  [].  ,   ,    - .   .    .  ,  ,     .       .   ,    .    .   .     , ,      ,   . ,     ?    , -   .   ,     : , [].     .   . ,   , ,  .    .   ,  .  .   .   , .     ,    .  -  ,  ? .   ,    ,    .    ,     ,  ,      .,    ?  !     .        .    .     .    - .     .  ,      -   , ,   ,   ,      .  .      ?          , ,  ,    .  ,    ,  .    . , ,     ,   .    ,  - ,   .         ,  , ,    ,       !  .    .   - ,  , .   .   ,   , ,   .     ? .   .     ! ,    ,     ,   -,   .  ! .  ?    . .   ,    ,    .  ,  . ,   . ,  .  .  ,   - .     . ..  .  ,   -.  . !.   ,   . -!       ,    ,     ,  . ? ! ! . . ,   . - ., !  ,  .    ,    .     [].  . , !   . .   ,    .   .   .     .  ,     .     .  ,     - . ,     ?  ,    .   ,    ,   ,   - .          [].      .     .    .       .    []. ,    -    .  -  .  ,   -  - ,           []          -.   .  .      . .  ,  . .   .    ,    ,   ,    ,  .        .      .  , .     .     , .     ,     .     ,  ,    . -         ,  .    ,       .    ,       .        . :       ?  -     .   ,   .    .     .       .  . .    , .    .    .       .    .    ,  ,   .    ,     .   , ,   .      .      ,         . , ,   ,    .    .  , ,   .    [].           , . -,  . ,   . .   .  -. ! ,  ,     .     .   .  -    .  . ,  -    ,      . ,  , .       . ,  -  .   ,  .    . , ,    .   .  ?  ,        . ,  - -  ,      .   .   ,    ,  .  .     . . .!  ,   .   .   .,  ,  ,   , ,   ,    ,   ,    , , , ,      .!   .       : ,    .        . ,  ,  ,     , -         -  .    .   []. -  .  .  .. ,    .      .    ,    ,    . ,      .  .         . . -. .  .     .   ,     ,    ,  .    ? ? . ? -. , .     .   ,   .    .   ,     .       .       ,  .    .     ,        .    .  ?     . ,  . ,     .  .     ?  ,  ,    .  ,  ,        . .    , ,   ,       .  ,   .      ,       , -,  ,  , ,       ,   ,   ,    .   ,     ,  .   .  . . :   ,  . ,  .       .      .     .    . ,  . ,   ,   .  ,      .      , .  .     ,  ,        .    . .  .  .   ? --. , .   .  ,     .,    ,    . ,  ,    .   ?,   ? -!      .   ,  ,   .   ? ,  ,     . ?    ,    .  .  ,  .     ,    ,   ,   .   ,    .       ,  .   . , ,     ?    .  -       .  .    , .   .  , -.    . -. . -.   .,  . . .  ,    .  , -.  ,  -   .  ,     .     ,    .       .    ,  . ,      .   .      .  .    ?  ?   , . , .        .     .     . ,      ,     ,     .  ,   .   ?     .     . ,   :  .   .    ,   .    ,  .      ,    ,    .   - .      .     ,    ?    .    ,  .    ,     .    .        .      [].,   . , ,  . ,  -.    .     .     .  []   ,       . .   . .       ..  . , , , , . -.   ,  ,  . .  [].   .  , ,     .    , . .  - .    . ,  ,   .   .         .  ,   - .   . ! , .      ,   .   .    .   ,   -   : , , , , , , .    . ?    ,   ,   ,  [].  ,     ?  -. . . ,  ? . .    .     -.  ,  []. . ,     .  .   ,     ,    .     .         .   ,     .  .      ,    . ,  ,     ,    .      , .   ,   . ,      ,  .   , .    .     .    .   ,   , ,  ,   , ,   . -       ,      .      ,   ,    .    ,     .  .  .   ,     [].        .     ? , ,   ,   ,      .    .     .     . ,  ..  ,  .   ,    .  .     .     .  -.  -.   ? , .     , .     .    .  .   .    . .    .        .  .     . ,  .     ?  ,  .  -      .      : , , , , , .    .     .    .  ,   .        .  . ,      [].    .   ,    .     .     [].      .       .       .         .  ,   .  .      .  .   .  .    ..    ? ? ,  . , ,   .      ? .  ,       .   . ,  .  , -.   , .  .  , .      .,  .  , , .   .  .    .    . ,   .    .   .    .     .   . ,    ,    .   ,   .    .    []. .  .      ,  . - .     .    ,   ?   .  ,     ,   ,     [].        .  .     ,  -.    . ,   ,   ,   ,     :   .      . ,     . -  . ,    . .      , ,   ,       .  .      .  .    ,   ,   []. ,   .    ,    .  ? ,          .    ,        . . !   .,  .  ,     .  ?       ,      . ,  ,   ,  .   .   ,   .   .      .    ,     .  , ,  .     . ,  , , ,   ,    .   ![]  ,   !  ,    ,     ,   .   .    ,     .    , .    ,    .    ,    ,     [].    .    .     ?   .     ,       .   .         ,   , [], , - ,     .        []. -   ,    ,   ,   ,    .       ,   ,     ,   ,     ,     .,    ?     ,    ,    .          .     .   , .                ,  ,    ,     .    , , .  ,  , .         ,     ,  -       ,      . ,    ,  ,   -     .    ,    , ,    : ,  !     !       ,  .  , ,    . , , -,  ,    .   , , ,       ,     ,    ,    .  ,      ,  , ,       .        ,   .  ,  . ,   .   .    .   .   , , ,  .        ,     .   .  .    .   ,  .  .     .        , .     .  ,   ,   .    .    .       .   . !!   .     .      . -,     .   ?      .   .        ?    .  .   ,    . , , .  ,    .     .    ?  ?   -      . ,  ,  .     . .      .  .   ,   .       .    .   .   . ,  .    .   ?     ,  .      , ,  .   ,         .  !      .   . .    .  .    . ,       .  ,         .   ,    [].   ,  , .  ,           .  , .      [].    ?      .       .   .   ,  .       . .  .    .   , . ,   .    . ,  ,  ,  ,   .  .      .       .  .     ,   .      .  ? -.         .  ,      .   ,   .     .     .   . ,      .   .   ,   ,      .    .     .         []. -      .       ,   ,  .       .    ,     .  ,    .     [],  . . ,    . -       ,  ?     . -     .  [].   ?     ?  - ,   .     .   .         .  .   .   -       .    ,   ,     .         ,  . ,     .       . ,    ,    .     ,  , ,      ! ..: -.  .  ,  .   -   .    . -    ? . - .   . .    .  ,  ?      ?   . .  .   -  .      .    .    . -      .    ? , ?        .   ,  . ? .   .   .   .  ,  .   .   , ,   ?    .      ,   .   .      . ? ,   [].   ? , .!    .     .     ?   -  .  .  .  ?  ,       .    -  ? ,  .  ?[].  -   . .   .   .     . ,    ,   ,   ,  .  ,  , , . ,   !    ,   .   ,  .     ,      .. . .  .     .   .     .  .     .    .     [].    .   ,       .         . .     .    . , ,  .    .   .   .   .     .    . ,  . .   .  ,    .   .     .  ,  .       .   .  .   -.                                                     -                .  . . . .     ,     ,  , .   -.      ,     -             ,   ,      , ..,      ,                                   ,    ,  ,         ,      ,        []    .     .     []. ,    ,     .  ,    ,     .  ,    [],     .   -! -  -! -  -[].  []                                                                                       .                                                                                                                                                         ?   []    , ,    ,  ,       ,      ,     .       ,   ,  ,  ,   ,    ,   [],   ,  ,           ,           .                    ,       [](            ,   ,                )            ,                   ,          ,         ,     ,   , ,        .         ,      ,      ,                                            .                               ,             !      [].       .          .                                                                                                          .            [].                .            .     .                         .        .    ,      .          .                 . ,              .                  .              .             .         .                          .              .                           .           .            .      .       []                  .               .     ,             .                      .                                       .    ,          .        .   []                                  .                   .                       .               .               .                                  .        .   []               .             .                                     []                    .                  .                .                        .                      .                           .                          .                             .         []                 .                    .         