    -- I --Stately, plump Buck Mulligan came from the stairhead, bearing a bowl oflather on which a mirror and a razor lay crossed. A yellow dressinggown,ungirdled, was sustained gently behind him on the mild morning air. Heheld the bowl aloft and intoned:--INTROIBO AD ALTARE DEI.Halted, he peered down the dark winding stairs and called out coarsely:--Come up, Kinch! Come up, you fearful jesuit!Solemnly he came forward and mounted the round gunrest. He facedabout and blessed gravely thrice the tower, the surrounding land and theawaking mountains. Then, catching sight of Stephen Dedalus, he benttowards him and made rapid crosses in the air, gurgling in his throat andshaking his head. Stephen Dedalus, displeased and sleepy, leaned his armson the top of the staircase and looked coldly at the shaking gurgling facethat blessed him, equine in its length, and at the light untonsured hair,grained and hued like pale oak.Buck Mulligan peeped an instant under the mirror and then coveredthe bowl smartly.--Back to barracks! he said sternly.He added in a preachers tone:--For this, O dearly beloved, is the genuine Christine: body and soul andblood and ouns. Slow music, please. Shut your eyes, gents. One moment. Alittle trouble about those white corpuscles. Silence, all.He peered sideways up and gave a long slow whistle of call, thenpaused awhile in rapt attention, his even white teeth glistening here andthere with gold points. Chrysostomos. Two strong shrill whistles answeredthrough the calm.--Thanks, old chap, he cried briskly. That will do nicely. Switch off thecurrent, will you?He skipped off the gunrest and looked gravely at his watcher,gathering about his legs the loose folds of his gown. The plump shadowedface and sullen oval jowl recalled a prelate, patron of arts in the middleages. A pleasant smile broke quietly over his lips.--The mockery of it! he said gaily. Your absurd name, an ancient Greek!He pointed his finger in friendly jest and went over to the parapet,laughing to himself. Stephen Dedalus stepped up, followed him wearilyhalfway and sat down on the edge of the gunrest, watching him still as hepropped his mirror on the parapet, dipped the brush in the bowl andlathered cheeks and neck.Buck Mulligans gay voice went on.--My name is absurd too: Malachi Mulligan, two dactyls. But it has aHellenic ring, hasnt it? Tripping and sunny like the buck himself. Wemust go to Athens. Will you come if I can get the aunt to fork out twentyquid?He laid the brush aside and, laughing with delight, cried:--Will he come? The jejune jesuit!Ceasing, he began to shave with care.--Tell me, Mulligan, Stephen said quietly.--Yes, my love?--How long is Haines going to stay in this tower?Buck Mulligan showed a shaven cheek over his right shoulder.--God, isnt he dreadful? he said frankly. A ponderous Saxon. He thinksyoure not a gentleman. God, these bloody English! Bursting with moneyand indigestion. Because he comes from Oxford. You know, Dedalus, youhave the real Oxford manner. He cant make you out. O, my name for youis the best: Kinch, the knife-blade.He shaved warily over his chin.--He was raving all night about a black panther, Stephen said. Where ishis guncase?--A woful lunatic! Mulligan said. Were you in a funk?--I was, Stephen said with energy and growing fear. Out here in the darkwith a man I dont know raving and moaning to himself about shooting ablack panther. You saved men from drowning. Im not a hero, however. Ifhe stays on here I am off.Buck Mulligan frowned at the lather on his razorblade. He hoppeddown from his perch and began to search his trouser pockets hastily.--Scutter! he cried thickly.He came over to the gunrest and, thrusting a hand into Stephensupper pocket, said:--Lend us a loan of your noserag to wipe my razor.Stephen suffered him to pull out and hold up on show by its corner adirty crumpled handkerchief. Buck Mulligan wiped the razorblade neatly.Then, gazing over the handkerchief, he said:--The bards noserag! A new art colour for our Irish poets: snotgreen.You can almost taste it, cant you?He mounted to the parapet again and gazed out over Dublin bay, hisfair oakpale hair stirring slightly.--God! he said quietly. Isnt the sea what Algy calls it: a great sweetmother? The snotgreen sea. The scrotumtightening sea. EPI OINOPA PONTON.Ah, Dedalus, the Greeks! I must teach you. You must read them in theoriginal. THALATTA! THALATTA! She is our great sweet mother. Come andlook.Stephen stood up and went over to the parapet. Leaning on it helooked down on the water and on the mailboat clearing the harbourmouthof Kingstown.--Our mighty mother! Buck Mulligan said.He turned abruptly his grey searching eyes from the sea to Stephensface.--The aunt thinks you killed your mother, he said. Thats why she wontlet me have anything to do with you.--Someone killed her, Stephen said gloomily.--You could have knelt down, damn it, Kinch, when your dying motherasked you, Buck Mulligan said. Im hyperborean as much as you. But tothink of your mother begging you with her last breath to kneel down andpray for her. And you refused. There is something sinister in you ...He broke off and lathered again lightly his farther cheek. A tolerantsmile curled his lips.--But a lovely mummer! he murmured to himself. Kinch, the loveliestmummer of them all!He shaved evenly and with care, in silence, seriously.Stephen, an elbow rested on the jagged granite, leaned his palmagainst his brow and gazed at the fraying edge of his shiny blackcoat-sleeve. Pain, that was not yet the pain of love, fretted his heart.Silently, in a dream she had come to him after her death, her wasted bodywithin its loose brown graveclothes giving off an odour of wax androsewood, her breath, that had bent upon him, mute, reproachful, a faintodour of wetted ashes. Across the threadbare cuffedge he saw the seahailed as a great sweet mother by the wellfed voice beside him. The ringof bay and skyline held a dull green mass of liquid. A bowl of white chinahad stood beside her deathbed holding the green sluggish bile which shehad torn up from her rotting liver by fits of loud groaning vomiting.Buck Mulligan wiped again his razorblade.--Ah, poor dogsbody! he said in a kind voice. I must give you a shirt anda few noserags. How are the secondhand breeks?--They fit well enough, Stephen answered.Buck Mulligan attacked the hollow beneath his underlip.--The mockery of it, he said contentedly. Secondleg they should be. Godknows what poxy bowsy left them off. I have a lovely pair with a hairstripe, grey. Youll look spiffing in them. Im not joking, Kinch. Youlook damn well when youre dressed.--Thanks, Stephen said. I cant wear them if they are grey.--He cant wear them, Buck Mulligan told his face in the mirror.Etiquette is etiquette. He kills his mother but he cant wear greytrousers.He folded his razor neatly and with stroking palps of fingers felt thesmooth skin.Stephen turned his gaze from the sea and to the plump face with itssmokeblue mobile eyes.--That fellow I was with in the Ship last night, said Buck Mulligan, saysyou have g.p.i. Hes up in Dottyville with Connolly Norman. Generalparalysis of the insane!He swept the mirror a half circle in the air to flash the tidings abroadin sunlight now radiant on the sea. His curling shaven lips laughed andthe edges of his white glittering teeth. Laughter seized all his strongwellknit trunk.--Look at yourself, he said, you dreadful bard!Stephen bent forward and peered at the mirror held out to him, cleftby a crooked crack. Hair on end. As he and others see me. Who chose thisface for me? This dogsbody to rid of vermin. It asks me too.--I pinched it out of the skivvys room, Buck Mulligan said. It does herall right. The aunt always keeps plainlooking servants for Malachi. Leadhim not into temptation. And her name is Ursula.Laughing again, he brought the mirror away from Stephens peeringeyes.--The rage of Caliban at not seeing his face in a mirror, he said. IfWilde were only alive to see you!Drawing back and pointing, Stephen said with bitterness:--It is a symbol of Irish art. The cracked looking-glass of a servant.Buck Mulligan suddenly linked his arm in Stephens and walked withhim round the tower, his razor and mirror clacking in the pocket where hehad thrust them.--Its not fair to tease you like that, Kinch, is it? he said kindly. Godknows you have more spirit than any of them.Parried again. He fears the lancet of my art as I fear that of his. Thecold steelpen.--Cracked lookingglass of a servant! Tell that to the oxy chap downstairsand touch him for a guinea. Hes stinking with money and thinks yourenot a gentleman. His old fellow made his tin by selling jalap to Zulus orsome bloody swindle or other. God, Kinch, if you and I could only worktogether we might do something for the island. Hellenise it.Cranlys arm. His arm.--And to think of your having to beg from these swine. Im the only onethat knows what you are. Why dont you trust me more? What have you upyour nose against me? Is it Haines? If he makes any noise here Ill bringdown Seymour and well give him a ragging worse than they gave CliveKempthorpe.Young shouts of moneyed voices in Clive Kempthorpes rooms. Palefaces:they hold their ribs with laughter, one clasping another. O, Ishall expire! Break the news to her gently, Aubrey! I shall die! With slitribbons of his shirt whipping the air he hops and hobbles round the table,with trousers down at heels, chased by Ades of Magdalen with the tailorsshears. A scared calfs face gilded with marmalade. I dont want to bedebagged! Dont you play the giddy ox with me!Shouts from the open window startling evening in the quadrangle. Adeaf gardener, aproned, masked with Matthew Arnolds face, pushes hismower on the sombre lawn watching narrowly the dancing motes ofgrasshalms.To ourselves ... new paganism ... omphalos.--Let him stay, Stephen said. Theres nothing wrong with him except atnight.--Then what is it? Buck Mulligan asked impatiently. Cough it up. Imquite frank with you. What have you against me now?They halted, looking towards the blunt cape of Bray Head that lay onthe water like the snout of a sleeping whale. Stephen freed his armquietly.--Do you wish me to tell you? he asked.--Yes, what is it? Buck Mulligan answered. I dont remember anything.He looked in Stephens face as he spoke. A light wind passed hisbrow, fanning softly his fair uncombed hair and stirring silver points ofanxiety in his eyes.Stephen, depressed by his own voice, said:--Do you remember the first day I went to your house after my mothersdeath?Buck Mulligan frowned quickly and said:--What? Where? I cant remember anything. I remember only ideas andsensations. Why? What happened in the name of God?--You were making tea, Stephen said, and went across the landing to getmore hot water. Your mother and some visitor came out of thedrawingroom. She asked you who was in your room.--Yes? Buck Mulligan said. What did I say? I forget.--You said, Stephen answered, O, ITS ONLY DEDALUS WHOSE MOTHER ISBEASTLY DEAD.A flush which made him seem younger and more engaging rose toBuck Mulligans cheek.--Did I say that? he asked. Well? What harm is that?He shook his constraint from him nervously.--And what is death, he asked, your mothers or yours or my own? Yousaw only your mother die. I see them pop off every day in the Mater andRichmond and cut up into tripes in the dissectingroom. Its a beastlything and nothing else. It simply doesnt matter. You wouldnt kneel downto pray for your mother on her deathbed when she asked you. Why? Becauseyou have the cursed jesuit strain in you, only its injected the wrongway. To me its all a mockery and beastly. Her cerebral lobes are notfunctioning. She calls the doctor sir Peter Teazle and picks buttercupsoff the quilt. Humour her till its over. You crossed her last wish indeath and yet you sulk with me because I dont whinge like some hired mutefrom Lalouettes. Absurd! I suppose I did say it. I didnt mean to offendthe memory of your mother.He had spoken himself into boldness. Stephen, shielding the gapingwounds which the words had left in his heart, said very coldly:--I am not thinking of the offence to my mother.--Of what then? Buck Mulligan asked.--Of the offence to me, Stephen answered.Buck Mulligan swung round on his heel.--O, an impossible person! he exclaimed.He walked off quickly round the parapet. Stephen stood at his post,gazing over the calm sea towards the headland. Sea and headland nowgrew dim. Pulses were beating in his eyes, veiling their sight, and hefelt the fever of his cheeks.A voice within the tower called loudly:--Are you up there, Mulligan?--Im coming, Buck Mulligan answered.He turned towards Stephen and said:--Look at the sea. What does it care about offences? Chuck Loyola, Kinch,and come on down. The Sassenach wants his morning rashers.His head halted again for a moment at the top of the staircase, levelwith the roof:--Dont mope over it all day, he said. Im inconsequent. Give up themoody brooding.His head vanished but the drone of his descending voice boomed outof the stairhead:    AND NO MORE TURN ASIDE AND BROOD   UPON LOVES BITTER MYSTERY   FOR FERGUS RULES THE BRAZEN CARS.Woodshadows floated silently by through the morning peace from thestairhead seaward where he gazed. Inshore and farther out the mirror ofwater whitened, spurned by lightshod hurrying feet. White breast of thedim sea. The twining stresses, two by two. A hand plucking theharpstrings, merging their twining chords. Wavewhite wedded wordsshimmering on the dim tide.A cloud began to cover the sun slowly, wholly, shadowing the bay indeeper green. It lay beneath him, a bowl of bitter waters. Fergus song: Isang it alone in the house, holding down the long dark chords. Her doorwas open: she wanted to hear my music. Silent with awe and pity I went toher bedside. She was crying in her wretched bed. For those words, Stephen:loves bitter mystery.Where now?Her secrets: old featherfans, tasselled dancecards, powdered withmusk, a gaud of amber beads in her locked drawer. A birdcage hung in thesunny window of her house when she was a girl. She heard old Royce singin the pantomime of Turko the Terrible and laughed with others when hesang:    I AM THE BOY    THAT CAN ENJOY    INVISIBILITY.Phantasmal mirth, folded away: muskperfumed.    AND NO MORE TURN ASIDE AND BROOD.Folded away in the memory of nature with her toys. Memories besethis brooding brain. Her glass of water from the kitchen tap when she hadapproached the sacrament. A cored apple, filled with brown sugar, roastingfor her at the hob on a dark autumn evening. Her shapely fingernailsreddened by the blood of squashed lice from the childrens shirts.In a dream, silently, she had come to him, her wasted body within itsloose graveclothes giving off an odour of wax and rosewood, her breath,bent over him with mute secret words, a faint odour of wetted ashes.Her glazing eyes, staring out of death, to shake and bend my soul. Onme alone. The ghostcandle to light her agony. Ghostly light on thetortured face. Her hoarse loud breath rattling in horror, while all prayedon their knees. Her eyes on me to strike me down. LILIATA RUTILANTIUM TECONFESSORUM TURMA CIRCUMDET: IUBILANTIUM TE VIRGINUM CHORUS EXCIPIAT.Ghoul! Chewer of corpses!No, mother! Let me be and let me live.--Kinch ahoy!Buck Mulligans voice sang from within the tower. It came nearer upthe staircase, calling again. Stephen, still trembling at his souls cry,heard warm running sunlight and in the air behind him friendly words.--Dedalus, come down, like a good mosey. Breakfast is ready. Haines isapologising for waking us last night. Its all right.--Im coming, Stephen said, turning.--Do, for Jesus sake, Buck Mulligan said. For my sake and for all oursakes.His head disappeared and reappeared.--I told him your symbol of Irish art. He says its very clever. Touchhim for a quid, will you? A guinea, I mean.--I get paid this morning, Stephen said.--The school kip? Buck Mulligan said. How much? Four quid? Lend usone.--If you want it, Stephen said.--Four shining sovereigns, Buck Mulligan cried with delight. Well have aglorious drunk to astonish the druidy druids. Four omnipotent sovereigns.He flung up his hands and tramped down the stone stairs, singing outof tune with a Cockney accent:    O, WONT WE HAVE A MERRY TIME,    DRINKING WHISKY, BEER AND WINE!    ON CORONATION,    CORONATION DAY!    O, WONT WE HAVE A MERRY TIME    ON CORONATION DAY!Warm sunshine merrying over the sea. The nickel shavingbowl shone,forgotten, on the parapet. Why should I bring it down? Or leave it thereall day, forgotten friendship?He went over to it, held it in his hands awhile, feeling its coolness,smelling the clammy slaver of the lather in which the brush was stuck. SoI carried the boat of incense then at Clongowes. I am another now and yetthe same. A servant too. A server of a servant.In the gloomy domed livingroom of the tower Buck Mulligansgowned form moved briskly to and fro about the hearth, hiding andrevealing its yellow glow. Two shafts of soft daylight fell across theflagged floor from the high barbacans: and at the meeting of their rays acloud of coalsmoke and fumes of fried grease floated, turning.--Well be choked, Buck Mulligan said. Haines, open that door, will you?Stephen laid the shavingbowl on the locker. A tall figure rose from thehammock where it had been sitting, went to the doorway and pulled openthe inner doors.--Have you the key? a voice asked.--Dedalus has it, Buck Mulligan said. Janey Mack, Im choked!He howled, without looking up from the fire:--Kinch!--Its in the lock, Stephen said, coming forward.The key scraped round harshly twice and, when the heavy door hadbeen set ajar, welcome light and bright air entered. Haines stood at thedoorway, looking out. Stephen haled his upended valise to the table andsat down to wait. Buck Mulligan tossed the fry on to the dish beside him.Then he carried the dish and a large teapot over to the table, set themdown heavily and sighed with relief.--Im melting, he said, as the candle remarked when ... But, hush! Not aword more on that subject! Kinch, wake up! Bread, butter, honey. Haines,come in. The grub is ready. Bless us, O Lord, and these thy gifts. Wheresthe sugar? O, jay, theres no milk.Stephen fetched the loaf and the pot of honey and the buttercoolerfrom the locker. Buck Mulligan sat down in a sudden pet.--What sort of a kip is this? he said. I told her to come after eight.--We can drink it black, Stephen said thirstily. Theres a lemon in thelocker.--O, damn you and your Paris fads! Buck Mulligan said. I want Sandycovemilk.Haines came in from the doorway and said quietly:--That woman is coming up with the milk.--The blessings of God on you! Buck Mulligan cried, jumping up from hischair. Sit down. Pour out the tea there. The sugar is in the bag. Here, Icant go fumbling at the damned eggs.He hacked through the fry on the dish and slapped it out on threeplates, saying:--IN NOMINE PATRIS ET FILII ET SPIRITUS SANCTI.Haines sat down to pour out the tea.--Im giving you two lumps each, he said. But, I say, Mulligan, you domake strong tea, dont you?Buck Mulligan, hewing thick slices from the loaf, said in an oldwomans wheedling voice:--When I makes tea I makes tea, as old mother Grogan said. And when Imakes water I makes water.--By Jove, it is tea, Haines said.Buck Mulligan went on hewing and wheedling:--SO I DO, MRS CAHILL, says she. BEGOB, MAAM, says Mrs Cahill, GOD SENDYOU DONT MAKE THEM IN THE ONE POT.He lunged towards his messmates in turn a thick slice of bread,impaled on his knife.--Thats folk, he said very earnestly, for your book, Haines. Five linesof text and ten pages of notes about the folk and the fishgods of Dundrum.Printed by the weird sisters in the year of the big wind.He turned to Stephen and asked in a fine puzzled voice, lifting hisbrows:--Can you recall, brother, is mother Grogans tea and water pot spoken ofin the Mabinogion or is it in the Upanishads?--I doubt it, said Stephen gravely.--Do you now? Buck Mulligan said in the same tone. Your reasons, pray?--I fancy, Stephen said as he ate, it did not exist in or out of theMabinogion. Mother Grogan was, one imagines, a kinswoman of MaryAnn.Buck Mulligans face smiled with delight.--Charming! he said in a finical sweet voice, showing his white teeth andblinking his eyes pleasantly. Do you think she was? Quite charming!Then, suddenly overclouding all his features, he growled in ahoarsened rasping voice as he hewed again vigorously at the loaf:  --FOR OLD MARY ANN    SHE DOESNT CARE A DAMN.    BUT, HISING UP HER PETTICOATS ...He crammed his mouth with fry and munched and droned.The doorway was darkened by an entering form.--The milk, sir!--Come in, maam, Mulligan said. Kinch, get the jug.An old woman came forward and stood by Stephens elbow.--Thats a lovely morning, sir, she said. Glory be to God.--To whom? Mulligan said, glancing at her. Ah, to be sure!Stephen reached back and took the milkjug from the locker.--The islanders, Mulligan said to Haines casually, speak frequently ofthe collector of prepuces.--How much, sir? asked the old woman.--A quart, Stephen said.He watched her pour into the measure and thence into the jug richwhite milk, not hers. Old shrunken paps. She poured again a measurefuland a tilly. Old and secret she had entered from a morning world, maybe amessenger. She praised the goodness of the milk, pouring it out. Crouchingby a patient cow at daybreak in the lush field, a witch on her toadstool,her wrinkled fingers quick at the squirting dugs. They lowed about herwhom they knew, dewsilky cattle. Silk of the kine and poor old woman,names given her in old times. A wandering crone, lowly form of an immortalserving her conqueror and her gay betrayer, their common cuckquean, amessenger from the secret morning. To serve or to upbraid, whether hecould not tell: but scorned to beg her favour.--It is indeed, maam, Buck Mulligan said, pouring milk into their cups.--Taste it, sir, she said.He drank at her bidding.--If we could live on good food like that, he said to her somewhatloudly, we wouldnt have the country full of rotten teeth and rotten guts.Living in a bogswamp, eating cheap food and the streets paved with dust,horsedung and consumptives spits.--Are you a medical student, sir? the old woman asked.--I am, maam, Buck Mulligan answered.--Look at that now, she said.Stephen listened in scornful silence. She bows her old head to a voicethat speaks to her loudly, her bonesetter, her medicineman: me sheslights. To the voice that will shrive and oil for the grave all there isof her but her womans unclean loins, of mans flesh made not in Godslikeness, the serpents prey. And to the loud voice that now bids her besilent with wondering unsteady eyes.--Do you understand what he says? Stephen asked her.--Is it French you are talking, sir? the old woman said to Haines.Haines spoke to her again a longer speech, confidently.--Irish, Buck Mulligan said. Is there Gaelic on you?--I thought it was Irish, she said, by the sound of it. Are you from thewest, sir?--I am an Englishman, Haines answered.--Hes English, Buck Mulligan said, and he thinks we ought to speak Irishin Ireland.--Sure we ought to, the old woman said, and Im ashamed I dont speak thelanguage myself. Im told its a grand language by them that knows.--Grand is no name for it, said Buck Mulligan. Wonderful entirely. Fillus out some more tea, Kinch. Would you like a cup, maam?--No, thank you, sir, the old woman said, slipping the ring of themilkcan on her forearm and about to go.Haines said to her:--Have you your bill? We had better pay her, Mulligan, hadnt we?Stephen filled again the three cups.--Bill, sir? she said, halting. Well, its seven mornings a pint attwopence is seven twos is a shilling and twopence over and these threemornings a quart at fourpence is three quarts is a shilling. Thats ashilling and one and two is two and two, sir.Buck Mulligan sighed and, having filled his mouth with a crustthickly buttered on both sides, stretched forth his legs and began tosearch his trouser pockets.--Pay up and look pleasant, Haines said to him, smiling.Stephen filled a third cup, a spoonful of tea colouring faintly the thickrich milk. Buck Mulligan brought up a florin, twisted it round in hisfingers and cried:--A miracle!He passed it along the table towards the old woman, saying:--Ask nothing more of me, sweet. All I can give you I give.Stephen laid the coin in her uneager hand.--Well owe twopence, he said.--Time enough, sir, she said, taking the coin. Time enough. Good morning,sir.She curtseyed and went out, followed by Buck Mulligans tenderchant:  --HEART OF MY HEART, WERE IT MORE,    MORE WOULD BE LAID AT YOUR FEET.He turned to Stephen and said:--Seriously, Dedalus. Im stony. Hurry out to your school kip and bringus back some money. Today the bards must drink and junket. Ireland expectsthat every man this day will do his duty.--That reminds me, Haines said, rising, that I have to visit yournational library today.--Our swim first, Buck Mulligan said.He turned to Stephen and asked blandly:--Is this the day for your monthly wash, Kinch?Then he said to Haines:--The unclean bard makes a point of washing once a month.--All Ireland is washed by the gulfstream, Stephen said as he let honeytrickle over a slice of the loaf.Haines from the corner where he was knotting easily a scarf aboutthe loose collar of his tennis shirt spoke:--I intend to make a collection of your sayings if you will let me.Speaking to me. They wash and tub and scrub. Agenbite of inwit.Conscience. Yet heres a spot.--That one about the cracked lookingglass of a servant being the symbolof Irish art is deuced good.Buck Mulligan kicked Stephens foot under the table and said withwarmth of tone:--Wait till you hear him on Hamlet, Haines.--Well, I mean it, Haines said, still speaking to Stephen. I was justthinking of it when that poor old creature came in.--Would I make any money by it? Stephen asked.Haines laughed and, as he took his soft grey hat from the holdfast ofthe hammock, said:--I dont know, Im sure.He strolled out to the doorway. Buck Mulligan bent across to Stephenand said with coarse vigour:--You put your hoof in it now. What did you say that for?--Well? Stephen said. The problem is to get money. From whom? From themilkwoman or from him. Its a toss up, I think.--I blow him out about you, Buck Mulligan said, and then you come alongwith your lousy leer and your gloomy jesuit jibes.--I see little hope, Stephen said, from her or from him.Buck Mulligan sighed tragically and laid his hand on Stephens arm.--From me, Kinch, he said.In a suddenly changed tone he added:--To tell you the Gods truth I think youre right. Damn all else theyare good for. Why dont you play them as I do? To hell with them all. Letus get out of the kip.He stood up, gravely ungirdled and disrobed himself of his gown,saying resignedly:--Mulligan is stripped of his garments.He emptied his pockets on to the table.--Theres your snotrag, he said.And putting on his stiff collar and rebellious tie he spoke to them,chiding them, and to his dangling watchchain. His hands plunged andrummaged in his trunk while he called for a clean handkerchief. God, wellsimply have to dress the character. I want puce gloves and green boots.Contradiction. Do I contradict myself? Very well then, I contradictmyself. Mercurial Malachi. A limp black missile flew out of his talkinghands.--And theres your Latin quarter hat, he said.Stephen picked it up and put it on. Haines called to them from thedoorway:--Are you coming, you fellows?--Im ready, Buck Mulligan answered, going towards the door. Come out,Kinch. You have eaten all we left, I suppose. Resigned he passed out withgrave words and gait, saying, wellnigh with sorrow:--And going forth he met Butterly.Stephen, taking his ashplant from its leaningplace, followed them outand, as they went down the ladder, pulled to the slow iron door and lockedit. He put the huge key in his inner pocket.At the foot of the ladder Buck Mulligan asked:--Did you bring the key?--I have it, Stephen said, preceding them.He walked on. Behind him he heard Buck Mulligan club with his heavybathtowel the leader shoots of ferns or grasses.--Down, sir! How dare you, sir!Haines asked:--Do you pay rent for this tower?--Twelve quid, Buck Mulligan said.--To the secretary of state for war, Stephen added over his shoulder.They halted while Haines surveyed the tower and said at last:--Rather bleak in wintertime, I should say. Martello you call it?--Billy Pitt had them built, Buck Mulligan said, when the French were onthe sea. But ours is the omphalos.--What is your idea of Hamlet? Haines asked Stephen.--No, no, Buck Mulligan shouted in pain. Im not equal to ThomasAquinas and the fiftyfive reasons he has made out to prop it up. Wait tillI have a few pints in me first.He turned to Stephen, saying, as he pulled down neatly the peaks ofhis primrose waistcoat:--You couldnt manage it under three pints, Kinch, could you?--It has waited so long, Stephen said listlessly, it can wait longer.--You pique my curiosity, Haines said amiably. Is it some paradox?--Pooh! Buck Mulligan said. We have grown out of Wilde and paradoxes.Its quite simple. He proves by algebra that Hamlets grandson isShakespeares grandfather and that he himself is the ghost of his ownfather.--What? Haines said, beginning to point at Stephen. He himself?Buck Mulligan slung his towel stolewise round his neck and, bendingin loose laughter, said to Stephens ear:--O, shade of Kinch the elder! Japhet in search of a father!--Were always tired in the morning, Stephen said to Haines. And it israther long to tell.Buck Mulligan, walking forward again, raised his hands.--The sacred pint alone can unbind the tongue of Dedalus, he said.--I mean to say, Haines explained to Stephen as they followed, this towerand these cliffs here remind me somehow of Elsinore. THAT BEETLES OER HISBASE INTO THE SEA, ISNT IT?Buck Mulligan turned suddenly. for an instant towards Stephen butdid not speak. In the bright silent instant Stephen saw his own image incheap dusty mourning between their gay attires.--Its a wonderful tale, Haines said, bringing them to halt again.Eyes, pale as the sea the wind had freshened, paler, firm and prudent.The seas ruler, he gazed southward over the bay, empty save for thesmokeplume of the mailboat vague on the bright skyline and a sail tackingby the Muglins.--I read a theological interpretation of it somewhere, he said bemused.The Father and the Son idea. The Son striving to be atoned with theFather.Buck Mulligan at once put on a blithe broadly smiling face. Helooked at them, his wellshaped mouth open happily, hiВеликий ирландский писатель Джеймс Джойс (  ) стоит у истоков всей модернистской и постмодернистской литературы. Громкое имя и общемировую славу ему снискал Улисс  уникальный текст, роман   века. Предельно просты и его герой исюжет  один день из жизни дублинского обывателя; но в нехитрую оболочку вмещен весь космос литературы  фейерверк всех стилей и техник письма, виртуознейший язык, переклички с мириадами великих и безвестных текстов, вторжения древних мифов и творение новых, ирония и скандал, издевательство и игра  и встающий из всего этого новый взгляд на искусство, человека и мир. С момента выхода в свет и по сей день Улисс остается вызовом Писателя Читателю.* * *Джеймс ДжойсЭпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []Эпизод []* * *.Благодарим Вас за использование нашей библиотеки ..Джеймс ДжойсУлиссЭпизод []Сановитый[], жирный Бык Маллиган возник из лестничного проема, неся в руках чашку с пеной, на которой накрест лежали зеркальце и бритва. Желтый халат его, враспояску, слегка вздымался за ним на мягком утреннем ветерке.Он поднял чашку перед собою и возгласил[]:    [].Остановясь, он вгляделся вниз, в сумрак винтовой лестницы, и грубо крикнул: Выходи, Клинк! Выходи, иезуит несчастный!Торжественно он проследовал вперед и взошел на круглую орудийную площадку[]. Обернувшись по сторонам, он с важностью троекратно благословил башню, окрестный берег и пробуждающиеся горы. Потом, увидев Стивена Дедала, наклонился к нему и начал быстро крестить воздух, булькая горлом и подергивая головой. Стивен Дедал, недовольный и заспанный, облокотясь на последнюю ступеньку, холодно смотрел на дергающееся булькающее лицо, что благословляло его, длинное как у лошади, и на бестонзурную шевелюру, белесую, словно окрашенную под светлый дуб.Бык Маллиган заглянул под зеркальце и тут же опять прикрыл чашку. По казармам!  скомандовал он сурово.И пастырским голосом продолжал: Ибо сие, о возлюбленные мои, есть истинная Христина, тело и кровь, печенки и селезенки. Музыку медленней, пожалуйста. Господа, закройте глаза. Минуту. Маленькая заминка, знаете, с белыми шариками. Всем помолчать.Он устремил взгляд искоса вверх, издал долгий, протяжный призывный свист и замер, напряженно прислушиваясь. Белые ровные зубы кой-где поблескивали золотыми крупинками. Златоуст. Резкий ответный свист дважды прозвучал в тишине. Спасибо, старина,  живо откликнулся он.  Так будет чудненько. Можешь выключать ток!Он соскочил с площадки и с важностью поглядел на своего зрителя, собирая у ног складки просторного халата. Жирное затененное лицо и тяжелый овальный подбородок напоминали средневекового прелата[], покровителя искусств. Довольная улыбка показалась у него на губах. Смех да и только,  сказал он весело.  Это нелепое твое имя, как у древнего грека.Ткнув пальцем с дружелюбной насмешкой, он отошел к парапету, посмеиваясь. Стивен Дедал, поднявшись до конца лестницы, устало побрел за ним, но, не дойдя, уселся на край площадки и принялся наблюдать, как тот, пристроив на парапете зеркальце и обмакнув в пену помазок, намыливает шею и щеки.Веселый голос Быка Маллигана не умолкал: У меня тоже нелепое  Мэйлахи Маллиган, два дактиля. Но тут звучит что-то эллинское, правда ведь? Что-то солнечное и резвое, как сам бычок. Мы непременно должны поехать в Афины. Поедешь, если я раздобуду у тетушки двадцать фунтов?Он положил помазок и в полном восторге воскликнул: Это он-то поедет? Изнуренный иезуит.Оборвал себя и начал тщательно бриться. Послушай, Маллиган,  промолвил Стивен негромко. Да, моя радость? Долго еще Хейнс будет жить в башне?Бык Маллиган явил над правым плечом свежевыбритую щеку. Кошмарная личность, а?  сказал он от души.  Этакий толстокожий сакс. Он считает, что ты не джентльмен. Эти мне гнусные англичане! Их так и пучит от денег и от запоров. Он, видите ли, из Оксфорда. А знаешь, Дедал, вот у тебя-то настоящий оксфордский стиль. Он все никак тебя не раскусит. Нет, лучшее тебе имя придумал я: Клинк, острый клинок.Он выбривал с усердием подбородок. Всю ночь бредил про какую-то черную пантеру,  проговорил Стивен.  Где у него ружье? Совсем малый спятил,  сказал Маллиган.  А ты перетрусил не на шутку? Еще бы,  произнес Стивен с энергией и нарастающим страхом.  В кромешном мраке, с каким-то незнакомцем, который стонет и бредит, что надо застрелить пантеру. Ты спасал тонущих[]. Но я, знаешь ли, не герой. Если он тут останется, я ухожу.Бык Маллиган глядел, насупясь, на бритву, покрытую мыльной пеной. Соскочив со своего возвышения, он торопливо стал рыться в карманах брюк. Драла!  пробормотал он сквозь зубы.Вернувшись к площадке, он запустил руку в верхний карман Стивена и сказал: Позвольте одолжиться вашим сморкальником, вытереть нашу бритву.Стивен покорно дал ему вытащить и развернуть напоказ, держа за угол, измятый и нечистый платок. Бык Маллиган заботливо вытер лезвие. Вслед за этим, разглядывая платок, он объявил: Сморкальник барда. Новый оттенок в палитру ирландского стихотворца: сопливо-зеленый. Почти ощущаешь вкус, правда?Он снова поднялся к парапету и бросил долгий взгляд на залив. Ветерок шевелил белокурую, под светлый дуб, шевелюру. Господи!  сказал он негромко.  Как верно названо море у Элджи: седая нежная мать! Сопливо-зеленое море. Яйцещемящее море. Эпи ойнопа понтон.[]Ах, эти греки, Дедал. Надо мне тебя обучить. Ты должен прочесть их в подлиннике. Талатта! Талатта ![] Наша великая и нежная мать[]. Иди сюда и взгляни.Стивен встал и подошел к парапету. Перегнувшись, он посмотрел вниз на воду и на почтовый пароход, выходящий из гавани Кингстауна. Наша могущественная мать,  произнес Бык Маллиган.Внезапно он отвел взгляд от моря и большими пытливыми глазами посмотрел Стивену в лицо. Моя тетка считает, ты убил свою мать[],  сказал он.  Поэтому она бы мне вообще запретила с тобой встречаться. Кто-то ее убил,  сумрачно бросил Стивен. Черт побери, Клинк, уж на колени ты бы мог стать, если умирающая мать просит,  сказал Бык Маллиган.  Я сам гипербореец[] не хуже тебя. Но это ж подумать только, мать с последним вздохом умоляет стать на колени[], помолиться за нее  и ты отказываешься. Нет, что-то в тебе зловещее[]Оборвал себя и начал намыливать другую щеку. Всепрощающая улыбка тронула его губы. Но бесподобный комедиант!  шепнул он тихонько.  Клинк, бесподобнейший из комедиантов.Он брился плавно и осмотрительно, в истовом молчании.Стивен, поставив локоть на шершавый гранит, подперев лоб ладонью, неподвижно смотрел на обтерханные края своего черного лоснистого рукава. Боль, что не была еще болью любви, саднила сердце его. Во сне, безмолвно, она явилась ему после смерти, ее иссохшее тело в темных погребальных одеждах окружал запах воска и розового дерева, а дыхание, когда она с немым укором склонилась над ним, веяло сыростью могильного тлена. Поверх ветхой манжеты он видел море, которое сытый голос превозносил как великую и нежную мать. Кольцо залива и горизонта заполняла тускло-зеленая влага.Белый фарфоровый сосуд у ее смертного одра заполняла тягучая зеленая желчь, которую она с громкими стонами извергала из своей гниющей печени в приступах мучительной рвоты.Бык Маллиган заново обтер бритву. Эх, пес-бедолага!  с участием вздохнул он.  Надо бы выдать тебе рубашку да хоть пару сморкальников. А как те штаны, что купили с рук? Как будто впору,  отвечал Стивен.Бык Маллиган атаковал ложбинку под нижней губой. Смех да и только,  произнес он довольно.  Верней будет, с ног. Дознайся, какая там пьянь заразная таскала их. У меня есть отличная пара, серые, в узкую полоску. Ты бы в них выглядел потрясающе. Нет, кроме шуток, Клинк. Ты очень недурно смотришься, когда прилично одет. Спасибо,  ответил Стивен.  Если они серые, я их не могу носить[]. Он их не может носить,  сказал Бык Маллиган своему отражению в зеркале.  Этикет значит этикет. Он мать родную убил, но серые брюки ни за что не оденет.Он сложил аккуратно бритву и легкими касаньями пальцев ощупал гладкую кожу.Стивен перевел взгляд с залива на жирное лицо с мутно-голубыми бегающими глазами[]. Этот малый, с кем я сидел в Корабле прошлый вечер,  сказал Бык Маллиган,  уверяет, у тебя п.п.с. Он в желтом доме работает у Конопли Нормана. Прогрессивный паралич со слабоумием.Он описал зеркальцем полукруг, повсюду просверкав эту весть солнечными лучами, уже сияющими над морем. Изогнутые бритые губы, кончики блестящих белых зубов смеялись. Смех овладел всем его сильным и ладным телом. На, полюбуйся-ка на себя, горе-бард!  сказал он.Стивен наклонился и глянул в подставленное зеркало, расколотое кривой трещиной. Волосы дыбом. Так взор его и прочих видит меня[]. Кто мне выбрал это лицо? Эту паршивую шкуру пса-бедолаги? Оно тоже спрашивает меня. Я его стянул у служанки из комнаты,  поведал Бык Маллиган.  Ей в самый раз такое. Тетушка ради Мэйлахи всегда нанимает неказистых. Не введи его во искушение. И зовут-то Урсулой[].Снова залившись смехом, он убрал зеркальце из-под упорного взгляда Стивена. Ярость Калибана[], не видящего в зеркале своего отражения,  изрек он. Как жалко, Уайльд не дожил на тебя поглядеть!Отступив и показывая на зеркало, Стивен с горечью произнес: Вот символ ирландского искусства. Треснувшее зеркало служанки[].Неожиданно и порывисто Бык Маллиган подхватил Стивена под руку и зашагал с ним вокруг башни, позвякивая бритвой и зеркальцем, засунутыми в карман. Грех тебя так дразнить, правда, Клинк?  сказал он дружески.  Видит бог, в голове у тебя побольше, чем у них всех.Еще выпад отбит. Скальпель художника страшит его, как меня  докторский. Хладная сталь пера. Треснувшее зеркало служанки! Ты это скажи тому олуху из Оксфорда да вытяни из него гинею. Он весь провонял деньгами и считает, что ты не джентльмен. А у самого папаша набил мошну, сбывая негритосам слабительное, а может, еще на каких делишках. Эх, Клинк, если бы мы с тобой действовали сообща, уж мы бы кое-что сделали для нашего острова. Эллинизировали бы его.Рука Крэнли. Его рука[]. И подумать только, ты вынужден побираться у этих свиней. Я один-единственный понимаю, что ты за человек. Почему ж ты так мало мне доверяешь? Из-за чего все воротишь нос? Из-за Хейнса? Да пусть только пикнет, я притащу Сеймура, и мы ему закатим трепку еще похлеще, чем досталась Клайву Кемпторпу.Крики юных богатеньких голосов в квартире Клайва Кемпторпа. Бледнолицые: держатся за бока от хохота, хватаются друг за друга, ох, умора! Обри, бережно весть эту ей передай! Сейчас помру! В изрезанной рубашке, вьющейся лентами по воздуху, в съехавших до полу штанах, он, спотыкаясь, скачет вокруг стола, а за ним Эйдс из Магдалины с портновскими ножницами. Мордочка ошалелого теленка, позолоченная вареньем. Не надо, не сдирайте штаны! Не набрасывайтесь на меня, как бешеные[]!Крики из распахнутого окна вспугивают вечер во дворе колледжа. Глухой садовник в фартуке, замаскированный лицом Мэтью Арнольда, продвигается по темному газону с косилкой, вглядываясь в танцующий рой травинок.Нам самим новое язычество омфал.[] Ладно, пусть остается,  сказал Стивен.  Так-то он ничего, только по ночам. Тогда в чем же дело?  наседал Бык Маллиган.  Давай рожай. Я-то ведь напрямик с тобой. Что у тебя такое против меня?Они остановились, глядя туда, где тупая оконечность мыса Брэй-Хед покоилась на воде, словно голова спящего кита. Стивен осторожно высвободил руку. Ты хочешь, чтобы я сказал тебе?  спросил он. Да, в чем там дело?  повторил Бык Маллиган.  Я ничего не припоминаю.Говоря это, он в упор посмотрел на Стивена. Легкий ветерок пробежал по его лицу, вороша светлую спутанную шевелюру и зажигая в глазах серебряные искорки беспокойства.Стивен, удручаясь собственным голосом, сказал: Ты помнишь, как я пришел к тебе домой в первый раз после смерти матери?Бык Маллиган, мгновенно нахмурившись, отвечал: Как? Где? Убей, не могу припомнить. Я запоминаю только идеи и ощущения[]. Ну и что? Чего там стряслось, бога ради? Ты готовил чай,  продолжал Стивен,  а я пошел на кухню за кипятком. Из комнат вышла твоя мать и с ней кто-то из гостей. Она спросила, кто у тебя. Ну?  не отступал Бык Маллиган.  А я что сказал? Я уже все забыл. А ты сказал,  ответил Стивен ему,  Да так, просто Дедал, у которого мамаша подохла[].Бык Маллиган покраснел и стал казаться от этого моложе и привлекательней. Я так сказал?  переспросил он.  И что же? Что тут такого?Нервным движением он стряхнул свое замешательство. А что, по-твоему, смерть,  спросил он,  твоей матери, или твоя, или, положим, моя? Ты видел только, как умирает твоя мать. А я каждый день вижу, как они отдают концы и в Ричмонде, и в Скорбящей, да после их крошат на потроха в анатомичке. Это и называется подох, ничего больше. И не о чем говорить. Ты вот не соизволил стать на колени и помолиться за свою мать, когда она просила тебя на смертном одре. А почему? Да потому, что в тебе эта проклятая иезуитская закваска[], только она проявляется наоборот. По мне, тут одна падаль и пустая комедия. Ее лобные доли уже не действуют. Она называет доктора сэр Питер Тизл[] и хочет нарвать лютиков с одеяла. Уж не перечь ей, вот-вот все кончится. Ты сам не исполнил ее предсмертную просьбу, а теперь дуешься на меня, что я не скулил, как наемный плакальщик от Лалуэтта. Абсурд! Допустим, я и сказал так. Но я вовсе не хотел оскорбить память твоей матери.Его речь вернула ему самоуверенность. Стивен, скрывая зияющие раны, оставленные словами в его сердце, как можно суше сказал: Я и не говорю, что это оскорбляет мою мать. Так что же тогда?  спросил Бык Маллиган. Это оскорбляет меня,  был ответ.Бык Маллиган круто повернулся на каблуках. Нет, невозможный субъект!  воскликнул он.И пошел прочь быстрым шагом вдоль парапета. Стивен остался на месте, недвижно глядя на мыс и на спокойную гладь залива. Море и мыс сейчас подернулись дымкой. В висках стучала кровь, застилая взор, и он чувствовал, как лихорадочно горят его щеки.Громкий голос позвал снизу, из башни: Маллиган, вы где, наверху? Сейчас иду,  откликнулся Бык Маллиган.Он обернулся к Стивену и сказал: Взгляни на море. Что ему до всех оскорблений? Бросай-ка лучше Лойолу, Клинк, и двигаем вниз. Наш сакс поджидает уже свой бекон.Голова его задержалась на миг над лестницей, вровень с крышей. И не хандри из-за этого целый день. У меня же семь пятниц на неделе.Оставь скорбные думы.Голова скрылась, но мерный голос продолжал, опускаясь, доноситься из лестничного проема:Не прячь глаза и не скорбиНад горькой тайною любви,Там Фергус правит в полный рост,Владыка медных колесниц.[]В мирном спокойствии утра тени лесов неслышно проплывали от лестничного проема к морю, туда, куда он глядел. У берега и мористей водная гладь белела следами стремительных легких стоп. Морской волны белеет грудь.Попарные сплетения ударений. Рука, перебирающая струны арфы, рождает сплетения аккордов. Слитносплетенных словес словно волн белогрудых мерцанье.Облако медленно наползает на солнце, и гуще делается в тени зелень залива. Он был за спиной у него, сосуд горьких вод[]. Песня Фергуса. Я пел ее, оставшись дома один, приглушая долгие сумрачные аккорды. Дверь к ней была открыта: она хотела слышать меня. Безмолвно, с жалостью и благоговением, я приблизился к ее ложу. Она плакала на своем убогом одре. Над этими словами, Стивен: над горькой тайною любви.Где же теперь? Ее секреты в запертом ящичке: старые веера из перьев, бальные книжечки с бахромой, пропитанные мускусом, убор из янтарных бус. Когда она была девочкой, у ее окошка висела на солнце клетка с птицей. Она видела старика Ройса в представлении Свирепый турка и вместе со всеми смеялась, когда он распевал:Открою вам,Что рад бы самЯ невидимкой стать.Мимолетные радости, заботливо сложенные, надушенные мускусом.Не прячь глаза и не скорби.Сложены в памяти природы[], вместе с ее детскими игрушками. Скорбные воспоминания осаждают его разум. Стакан воды из крана на к